13-MAR-1987 12:09:52.23

FRN PANIC INITIATED, EXACERBATED BY MARKET MAKERS

Today's panic in the floating rate note market has been simmering for months and is, in many ways, of the market makers' own doing, traders and bank officials said.     "For the last six months, there have been a series of crises in the FRN market. Each has cut deeper and deeper into the very fibre of the market," said a senior official at a U.S. Bank.     As prices have fallen, he explained, the underwriters who originally brought the issues have retreated. They have divested themselves of the paper as quickly as possible, unwilling to bear losses of the magnitude seen in recent panic trading.     In the virtual effective closure of the market for perpetual floaters last month, bankers witnessed the consequences of this kind of contraction of liquidity and investor confidence.     Fears were engendered about the possibility of this crisis infecting the market in conventional dated FRN issues, which is almost 10 times as large as that for perpetuals, with an estimated 130 billion dlrs of debt outstanding.     "The professionals are so nervous about holding inventory that they will sell at any price," said an official at a leading U.S. Bank, explaining the panic selling which has pushed prices down sharply over the last two days.     Bankers and FRN traders emphasised that today's trading was unique in that it was driven exclusively by professionals and that there was nothing fundamentally wrong with the securities they sold.     In highlighting this point, dealers noted that the benchmark issues in the FRN market -- the two FRN's for the U.K., Launched in 1985 and 1986 -- fell an unprecedented 50 and 40 basis points, respectively, at the opening this morning.     Certainly, dealers said, Britain is no less credit-worthy today than it was yesterday and the country's economic health currently appears better than it has for some time.     Pointing out that this kind of sovereign and supra-national debt had not sagged on any fundamental weakness, one senior FRN source said: "The idiocy of the situation is aptly shown by the fact that these kind of borrowers can now tap the syndicated loan markets at rates lower than their floaters currently pay."     Dealers agreed that banking sector paper, which constitutes a significant part of the market, was currently under pressure.     Floating rate debt of major U.S. And Canadian banks eased markedly in nervous trading last month on renewed investor fears about the banks' exposure to Latin American debt.     The U.S. And Canadian money centre bank FRNs, along with Republic of Ireland paper, were hard hit again this week with dealers citing one heavily-traded Citicorp note falling to levels so low it is now effectively yielding 55 basis points over Libor (the London Interbank Offered Rate).     By comparison, the 500 mln dlr note which matures in 1998 yielded only a fine 20 basis point over Libid (the London Interbank Bid Rate) when it was issued in January last year.     Price declines of this size can really only be explained by an understanding of the operating practices of leading players in the market, dealers and banking analysts said.     "This has to be understood as a matter between banks who have a brief to buy low and sell high," one U.S. Bank source noted.     Another senior source at a U.K. Bank drew attention to the enormous overhead costs and high salaries generated over the last few years in the FRN market, which have to be justified.     But even beyond the cost of running an FRN trading desk, dealers said, is the way the securities are bought and sold.     Although sophisticated on-screen dealing exists in most markets, in the euro-markets trading is conducted by telephone.     "If somebody calls you up and asks you to make him a price in any issue, and you do, he can say "Right. You own five mln'," a trader said, explaining market practice.     The unfortunate buyer is then forced to unload the securities just minutes later to yet another firm at an even lower price, the trader explained.     It is precisely this phenomenon that forced the rapid downward price spiral earlier today, traders said, adding that it is likely to continue until the markets either regain their confidence or market practices change.     One possible solution, dealers said, would be to initiate trading exclusively through brokers' screens, so that only those who wanted to buy bonds would have to "lift a bid" or buy at that price.     Meanwhile, bank regulators are apparently concerned about the implications of the collapse in FRN prices.     Traders in London said that the Bank of England has called around to market makers asking whether they intended to continue trading and what they calculated the losses to be.     The Bank often makes periodic checks in the market, but dealers said the latest enquiries were more specific.     A spokesman for the Bank of England was not able to comment immediately on the Bank's action.     One trader at a major U.S. Bank here said that in addition, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's international capital markets unit has phoned banks in London today seeking information about trading in FRN's. He also said that this was not an unusual procedure.  Reuter &#3;

