26-FEB-1987 16:18:41.47

QUEBECOR <PQB> HEAD SEES NEW VENTURES LIKELY

Quebecor Inc, one of Canada's largest publishing and printing companies, is likely to launch a new daily newspaper in Montreal, probably this fall, president Pierre Peladeau told Reuters in an interview.     The company, which last week won a bid to buy the Quebec government's 55 pct interest in pulp and paper company <Donohue Inc>, will also likely go ahead with plans to build a new paper mill in Matane, Quebec, Peladeau said.     "I would say we will move (ahead with the daily).... This is not definite but i think we will," he said, adding that he plans to announce a decision early next week.     Quebecor, which had revenues of 446 mln Canadian dlrs last year and profit of 16.2 mln dlrs, already publishes three daily newspapers, including the tabloid Le Journal de Montreal, the second-largest circulation paper in Canada.     A new daily would give Montreal its second English- language paper and its sixth daily newspaper, making the city the most crowded metropolitan newspaper market in North America, analysts have said.     Peladeau said market studies have indicated a new English language tabloid would have circulation of 50,000 within six months. He said he is waiting to determine whether the new venture would have the support of major advertisers.     Peladeau, who together with family members owns about 55 pct of Quebecor, said he has recieved offers from the heads of two major Canadian companies who are interested in the project but has not decided whether he would take partners in the newspaper venture.     He said he would consider launching the newspaper with one of the companies as a prelude to other joint ventures.     "It would be the possibility of doing something else in the short term," Peladeau said.     Peladeau said the joint acquisition of Donohue with Robert Maxwell's British Printing and Communications Corp plc <BPCL.L> does not mean Quebecor will have to hold off on other projects.     Peladeau and Maxwell's companies teamed up to buy the stake in Donohue, which resulted in Quebecor buying 51 pct of the govvernment's stake for about 165 mln Canadian dlrs and British printing acquiring the other 49 pct.     "In 1976 or 77 there was a tremendous shortage of newsprint. There were days when we didn't have enough paper to print the paper," Peladeau said. "When I lived that, I said to myself...next time we'll be ready."     Peladeau said most of Donohue's current total newsprint capacity however, is already committed to other buyers.     Quebecor uses about 100,000 metric tons of newsprint a year and Maxwell's company, which publishes Britain's Daily Mirror newspaper, uses about 200,000 tonnes.     Peladeau said even with a new 170 mln dlr paper machine, 49 pct owned by the New York Times, (NYT.A), adding to Donohue's 540,000 metric tonne capacity this fall, the companies will have to install another paper machine at Amos, Quebec, or build another mill to meet their demands .     He said a new mill, which would produce either newsprint or other types of paper, would cost 400-500 mln dlrs and could be on stream in two years. He said a mill in Matane, a depressed area with high unemployment, would be heavily subsidized by the government.     Peladeau said he is interested in further joint ventures with Maxwell's company, either in the newspaper market in France or in the U.S., where the company owns two large printing plants and is looking to expand its newspaper empire.     He said Maxwell's sons, who are French citizens, would provide an entree into the French market, where foreigners are prevented from buying newspapers. Peladeau said he would consider either buying into or starting daily newspapers in France or the U.S.     Quebecor is also in the process of expanding its chain of about 40 weekly newspapers, with the possible acquisition of two groups of weekly newspapers in the U.S., and is negotiating the acquisition of two weekly newspaper chains in Canada, Peladeau said.     He said the company may consider starting daily newspapers in two small Quebec cities and buying radio stations in the province.     Peladeau said Quebecor may also consider trading in its listing on the American stock exchange for a New York Stock Exchange listing.  Reuter &#3;

