11-APR-1987 04:06:51.04

IMF, WORLD BANK CRITICAL OF AGRICULTURE PROTECTION

A committee of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank said protectionist agricultural policies of industrial countries were a major cause of depressed global commodity prices.     The joint Development Committee, in a communique released following day-long discussions, said an improved environment for commodities was extremely important to the long-term viability of developing countries.     The committee also criticised the slow-down in lending to debtor nations.     Poorer countries, which rely primarily on raw commodity sales to industrial nations to pay their debts, have been highly critical of protectionist agricultural policies in the United States, Western Europe and Japan.     "Ministers identified protectionist agricultural policies as a major cause of distortions including depressed commodity prices on world markets, of surplus production and of budgetary drain," the communique said.     The communique, delayed because of disputes over specific language, was the final statement by the IMF and the bank after week-long semi-annual meetings of the two lending agencies.     Earlier, the IMF's powerful Interim Committee added its voice to growing criticism of delays by commercial banks on critically needed loan packages for debt-laden developing countries.     The committee said it welcomed the exploration of new procedures and financing techniques that will help mobilise new financial support for indebted countries.     On Thursday, U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, in a statement to the policy-making committee, said commercial bank lending to debtor nations last year was disappointing and more flexibility in loan programs was needed.     "Doubts about financing can clearly undermine the resolve to carry out needed reforms," Baker said.     The Development Committee also joined in the criticism, noting that there had been a declining flow of capital to the developing countries that "has been particularly significant in the case of flows from commercial banks."     A number of bank negotiations are bogged down over details including financial packages for Mexico, Nigeria and Argentina.     The banks, acknowledging it has been difficult to complete deals, say part of the blame goes to the developing countries for not making sufficient reform to make them good credit risks.  REUTER &#3;

