18-MAR-1987 11:33:52.73

SPANISH POWER COMPANY FECSA MAY SUSPEND PAYMENTS

Spain's financially troubled power company <Fuerzas Electricas de Cataluna S.A.> (FECSA) may suspend payments if it fails to reach agreement with creditors on renegotiating its 594 billion peseta debt, a company official said.     "We would only take this step in the event of a lack of co-operation on the part of our creditors," FECSA assistant general manager Jose Zaforteza told Reuters in a telephone interview. "It is unlikely they will refuse to renegotiate."     He said creditors would obtain a better deal by negotiating than under a suspension of payments.     FECSA is scheduled to begin formal talks with its creditors on April 6, and foreign banks holding some 184 billion pesetas of debt said they were angered over what they called a lack of information on the company's situation.     The spokesman for one U.S. Bank creditor said in reply to inquiries "It has been two months since we first detected signs of serious trouble at FECSA, and we still have no idea of how the company plans to restructure its finances."     The spokesman said no foreign bankers had been notified when FECSA yesterday, in an action unrelated to a possible total payments suspension, suspended payment on its debt principal.     FECSA's Zaforteza said, however, that telexes had been sent to creditors notifying them of the move, which he said was unavoidable.     He said the decision did not affect payment of interest on loans and debentures. FECSA faces repayment of 60 billion pesetas in interest and 30 billion on principal this year.     The U.S. Bank spokesman said foreign banks "were now more in the dark" than ever.     FECSA called for renegotiating its debt when the Madrid stock exchange on February 6 suspended trading in its shares, a move which officials said was meant to protect shareholders.     Zaforteza said the company will ask its creditors to switch old debt to new loans at lower interest rates, postpone interest payments and possibly convert some debt into shares.     Foreign bankers said they assumed the government was involved in the control and management of the electricity sector.     They added that lending policy toward the industry could be affected if the banks lost money in FECSA.     Foreign banking sources said they considered likely a fresh postponement of a 10 billion peseta Chase Manhattan Bank <CMB.N> led syndicated loan to power company <Hidrolectrica de Cataluna S.A.> (Hidruna).     The facility was scheduled to be signed in mid-February but was postponed when the bourse suspended FECSA's shares.     "We planned to sign this month but that looks unlikely under the present circumstances," a foreign banker said.  REUTER &#3;

