18-MAR-1987 09:57:06.19

ENVOY SEES BRIGHT ECONOMIC FUTURE FOR PHILIPPINES

The Philippines is poised for several years of stability and economic growth but faces major long-term problems from its rapidly increasing population, U.S. Ambassador Stephen Bosworth told Reuters in an interview.     "Medium-term out to the 1990s I am increasingly optimistic about this country," he said. "But if you look beyond that... You are jumping off the edge into the unknown."     Bosworth, who retires on April 2 after almost four years as U.S. Ambassador, forecast a real per capita increase in disposable income of more than four pct in 1987.     The Philippines has not seen such an increase this decade.     He said there were reasons to believe the Philippines could out-perform the world economy by enough to continue to generate increases in per capita income in the medium term.     "There is nothing big and dramatic yet and maybe big and dramatic won't ever happen. But I think foreign investors are now no longer saying let's wait and see how the political side turns out," he said.     Bosworth said much hope had been placed on the land reform program promised by President Corazon Aquino, but he warned it was not a complete cure for the country's ills.     He said even the redistribution of land to tenant farmers would not be a substitute for the generation of new employment in the countryside."There is no way even in 1987 that this country can provide employment growth in farming. Certainly it is not going to be able to do so in the future," he added.     "This has to be off-farm employment," he declared.     Bosworth said the population problem produced major uncertainties for the future of the country. He said that more than 60 pct of today's 50 mln people are said to live below the poverty line and official predictions suggest the population will double within the next three decades.     The ambassador said he believed population statistics to be understated.     Bosworth said he expected current high domestic liquidity to be drawn down during the next six months with some corresponding upward pressure on interest rates, now at about nine pct.     He said his predictions only assumed the Aquino government did not make any big mistakes. They did not assume any great transformation of the Philippine system.  REUTER &#3;

