 2-MAR-1987 04:37:30.88

TRADING DELAYED ON SINGAPORE'S NEW BILL MARKET

The start of trading on the new Singapore Government Securities Market has been postponed until late March or early April because legislative amendments still need parliamentary approval, banking sources said.     The new bill market, intended to establish a base for a wider capital market and to encourage private bond issues in Singapore, was supposed to be launched today.     William K.K. Wong, managing director of Indosuez Asia (Singapore) Ltd, said there is no real obstacle to prevent the new market from taking off. Most dealers are optimistic it will provide more liquidity for operators to trade, he said.     Lawrence Yeo, director of Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Ltd, said the market's success depends on domestic participation.     The five primary dealers and the three registered dealers will all be local companies.     The primary dealers are <Commercial Discount Co Ltd>, <National Discount Co Ltd>, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd <OCBM.SI>, <Overseas Union Bank Ltd> and United Overseas Bank Ltd <UOBM.SI>. They will underwrite the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) auctions, maintain market liquidity and channel open-market operations, MAS said.     <Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Ltd>, <Indosuez Asia (Singapore) Ltd> and <Credit Suisse First Boston Asia Ltd> will be recognised as registered dealers. They will act as market makers but will not bid directly at auctions.     MAS plans to launch trading by issuing taxable instruments grossing seven billion dlrs in the first year and a gross 38 billion dlrs of paper over the first five years.     Non-competitive bids from primary dealers prepared to accept average yield will be allocated first, to a maximum 500,000 dlrs for notes and bonds and to an unlimited amount for treasury bills.     The remaining amount will be awarded to competitive bidders from the lowest yield upwards.     In the secondary market, the standard lot traded between dealers will be one mln dlrs worth of treasury bills and 500,000 dlrs worth of government notes and bonds.  REUTER &#3;

