19-JUN-1987 10:07:15.03

CANADIAN TAX REFORM CALLED AN IMPORTANT STEP

Canada's sweeping tax reform package, announced today, is an important step towards a fairer system, but is not as bold a revamp of the tax structure as some had expected, economists and business leaders said.     "It's the biggest step towards tax reform we've taken in a great many years," Merrill Lynch Canada Inc chief economist Michael Manford told Reuters.     "But the system is the same old system with a lot of important changes, as opposed to a brand new system," he added.     Manford said changes introduced by Finance Minister Michael Wilson did not go far enough in simplifying the federal tax system. They represent evolutionary rather than revolutionary reform.     "Overall, I thought that it was a more timid step than we were led to believe," he said.     Wilson's move to increase money collected from corporations while cutting individual taxes "is probably an acceptable shift," said Bill James, president of Falconbridge Ltd, an international mining company.     Wilson spread corporate tax increases fairly evenly across the corporate sector, James said. "So it's not going to hit anyone too hard and we will remain competitive."     Wilson said in his speech to the House of Commons that Canada's tax system needed to be changed to compete with sweeping reforms in the United States last year.     "The critical thing on the corporate side is that Wilson moved most of the taxes much closer to the U.S. System," Manford said.     The federal government increased taxes paid by corporations by about five billion dlrs over the next five years, but lowered personal taxes by 11 billion dlrs in the same period.     Despite collecting more corporate taxes, Wilson was able to lower the tax rate on individual companies by removing many special tax exemptions and broadening the tax base.     Wilson's plan also reduced the capital cost allowance, used by companies to write off major investments, which some business spokesmen said will hurt business in the long run.     "That will affect some investment decisions negatively," said Laurent Thiebeault, Canadian Manufacturers Association president.     Tax analysts said for some industries it will take several days to assess the impact of the capital cost allowance reductions that will be made over a number of years.     As anticipated, Canada's opposition parties signalled they intend to fight the new tax measures as they are introduced in Parliament over the next few months.     "It's not tax reform, it's a tax grab," said Liberal leader John Turner.     Turner labelled changes to the federal sales tax "a money machine for the minister of finance."     Wilson broadened the federal sales tax to include additional products and also promised to introduce a broad-based, multi-staged sales tax.     "It's not at all a fair package and Canadians are going to see that very quickly," New Democratic Party leader Ed Broadbent said.     However, economist Manford said Wilson acted wisely to protect lower income Canadians by providing tax credits that will cut 850,000 people from the tax rolls.  Reuter &#3;

