 1-APR-1987 02:07:22.77

H.K. INVESTORS UNLOAD HOLDINGS AFTER STOCK ISSUES

Investors are unloading holdings of Hong Kong stocks following a spate of new share issues by leading local firms, analysts said.     The Hang Seng index fell 61.07 to 2,713.81 yesterday on speculation that Hutchison Whampoa Ltd planned a bonus issue of new "B" shares.     After yesterday's market close Hutchison and its parent Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd both announced one-for-two bonus issues of "B" shares. The news sent the index down 63.51 points to 2,650.30 in today's morning session.     The Cheung Kong companies' issues  followed Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd's announcement on Friday of a four-for-one bonus issue of new "B" shares.     There is also market speculation that Evergo Industrial Enterprise Ltd will make a similar move, following a request for suspension in share trading by the firm today.     Analysts said these new issues will have an adverse impact on trading.     James Miller-Day, director of County Securities Asia Ltd, said: "I don't like the concept of "B" shares because it will create inequality among equities."     He said the issue of "B" shares could create a conflict of interest with holders of other classes of shares, noting most "B" shares are issued at a par value equivalent to one-tenth of the "A" shares, but enjoy similar voting rights.     Other analysts said the new issues also renewed concern over local corporate attitudes towards political changes in Hong Kong after the British colony reverts to China in 1997.     Controlling shareholders can maintain control of local firms by issuing cheaper shares, with much of the new stock being distributed to themselves, analysts said.     Those shareholders can reduce their investment exposure here by selling some of their "A" shares and using the funds for new investment, possibly overseas.     An analyst at a major brokerage house said Li Ka-shing, chairman of both Cheung Kong and Hutchison, might be planning to fund future expansion by switching "A" shares for "B" shares.     Other analysts noted that the Cheung Kong group has already taken a major stake in Husky Oil Ltd of Canada and a minority share in Pearson Plc of Britain.     Hutchison has begun a major project to expand berthing facilities at its Hong Kong International Terminal Ltd and Cheung Kong will bid for a big land reclamation development at Hong Kong harbour.     The analysts said timing of the new issues was wrong because the local market had already been hit by declines on Wall Street and London since the beginning of the week.     "(The issues) came at a time when world stock markets are reeling from tensions between the U.S. And Japan over their trade relations," said Barry Yates, director of Hoare Govett Asia Ltd.    Jardine Matheson's shares enjoyed a brief rally after the announcement of the new issue, though they have lost 2.50 H.K. Dlrs since last Friday to stand at 22.30 dlrs today.     Cheung Kong was down two dlrs from yesterday's close at 41.25 dlrs and Hutchison fell 3.25 dlrs to 49.75 dlrs.  REUTER &#3;

