29-JUN-1987 00:29:32.06

TOKYO STOCKS OUTLOOK UNCERTAIN DUE TO YEN, OPEC

Prospects for Tokyo stocks are mixed this week with investors trying to figure out the future of the yen/dollar exchange rate and digest the implications of OPEC's latest accord on crude output and pricing, brokers said.     They said the market should extend the dull trend it has been in since the 225-share index fell rapidly from the record close at 25,929.42 on June 17.     It ended at 24,902.72 on Saturday and fell further this morning to close at 24,707.68 in an uncertain reaction to the weaker yen and the weekend OPEC accord.     Brokers said attention could focus more on the cheaper, less well-known stocks in the exchange's first and second sections, which were generally showing more resilience. The second section index, in contrast to the first, closed at a record 2,404.64 on June 26, surpassing the peak set on June 17 of 2,401.71.     "Probably shares of companies involved in the domestic economy are a good bet," said a broker at Daiwa Securities Co Ltd. He said his observation was based on figures showing that business activity in Japan is booming.     The government said on Friday that department store and supermarket sales rose 7.5 pct in May from a year earlier, while orders received by Japan's 50 major construction firms in the same month were up 7.6 pct year on year. Brokers expected more such figures, but said many stocks linked to domestic demand remain overpriced.     "They are hard to find, but companies with an attractive niche in the domestic economy, unaffected by currency movements, are the best bet," said a broker at a foreign securities house who declined to be identified.     But sharp rises in money supply and voracious domestic consumption are stirring inflation fears. The consumer price index rose 0.2 pct in May from April, the third consecutive month on month increase.     Although investors are not unduly worried about inflation, which erodes the real value of stock holdings, they say rising prices arouse concern that interest rates may climb.     The recent market advances have been assuming a further cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate. Such assumptions have now died, discouraging investors, brokers said.     If oil prices rise, the stock market in Japan could suffer a downturn as higher production costs stir inflation.     But share prices of Japan's oil importing companies may also firm, brokers said. "I have never been able to justify this because it should mean that the cost of importing rises," said a broker at Yamaichi Securities Co. "It just always happens."     Export-oriented companies may continue their recent rally if the dollar climbs against the yen. But prices of many blue chip exporters have risen fast over the last two weeks, making them look less attractive, brokers said.     However, if the dollar falls to about 140 or 138 yen, the market index may rally, brokers said. A lower dollar could damp down rising capital outflows into dollar investments from Japan's stock and bond markets, brokers said.     And as the yen/dollar rate is supposed to reflect the balance of trade between the United States and Japan, a lower dollar would bring more pressure on Japan to expand its demand for American imports by stimulating its local economy, brokers said.     "If the dollar falls, buy domestic, if it rises, maybe buy a few exporters," said one foreign broker.  REUTER &#3;

