24-MAR-1987 10:42:01.79

PHILIPPINE CENTRAL BANKER FACES CORRUPTION CHARGES

A government-appointed special prosecutor has ordered the filing of corruption charges over the closure of a private bank against Philippine central bank governor Jose Fernandez, who said he would contest the charges.     Ombudsman Raul Gonzalez told Reuters there was evidence to indicate that Fernandez had misused his office in ordering the closure of <Pacific Banking Corp> in July, 1985.     He said the charges against Fernandez would be filed "within the week" in a special court for corruption cases, adding that a defendant could appeal against a ruling in the Supreme Court.     Fernandez is in New York for talks with the Philippines' creditor banks on rescheduling about 9.4 billion dlrs of the country's foreign debt.     A central bank statement quoted Fernandez as saying Pacific Bank's closure and sale were in accordance with law.     "Fernandez said that some points may have been missed in the appreciation of the case for which reason he will be filing a motion for reconsideration of the (Ombudsman's) resolution," the statement said.     Central bank sources said the statement was drafted after Fernandez and senior deputy governor Gabriel Singson, who is in Manila, conferred on the telephone.     Gonzalez said his office ordered the charges filed after hearing submissions by Fernandez and plaintiff Paula Paug, the president of Pacific Bank's Employees Union.     In her complaint, Paug said Fernandez had acted arbitrarily in ordering the closure of Pacific Bank and placing it under receivership without giving the bank the right to appeal, throwing hundreds of employees out of work.     Paug also said Fernandez had not withdrawn his stockholding in Far East Bank and Trust Company, which took over Pacific Bank's assets, when he became central bank governor in January, 1984. Fernandez founded Far East in 1960.     She alleged Fernandez had misused his position by appointing two Far East bank executives to central bank consultancies, giving them access to Pacific Bank records. She also disputed Fernandez' interpretation of Pacific's accounts from January 1980 to May 1985, claiming the bank had made a profit, not a loss.     The central bank statement quoted Fernandez as stressing that Pacific Bank was "repeatedly given notice of the continuing losses of the bank and the immediate need of putting up additional capital to eliminate insolvency."     It said the central bank tried to assist in a bid by Bank of Hawaii and Philippine sugar trader Antonio Chan to purchase Pacific Bank, but the negotiations collapsed "because of certain legal impediments."     The statement said the central bank invited several banks to submit offers for Pacific, and the sale to Far East was approved by the Monetary Board and not by Fernandez alone.     Fernandez was also quoted in the statement as saying he had divested himself of all interests in Far East Bank when he became central bank governor. A Far East Bank spokesman declined comment on the charges against Fernandez.     In a footnote to a 12-page resolution recommending prosecution against Fernandez, Gonzalez said prima facie evidence of misuse of power also existed against all the then members of the country's Monetary Board, as well as the Far East executives, and ordered their investigation.     He said Fernandez's action fitted in with the political climate during former President Ferdinand Marcos's final years.     "(The) prevailing mood of the day for those in high offices was either to imitate the penchant of then President Marcos and his wife, to run roughshod over the human rights of citizens ... Or to follow blindly or with canine devotion any instructions from above," Gonzalez wrote.     Gonzalez, named to his post 11 months ago, said his office had received more than 4,000 complaints of misuse of power. He said among those facing prosecution were five provincial governors appointed by President Corazon Aquino.  REUTER &#3;

