20-MAR-1987 17:32:18.21

WALL STREET SURVIVES TRIPLE EXPIRATIONS

The four-times-a-year "triple witching hour" did not jolt Wall Street as much as it has in the past.     Market averages finished sharply higher as stock index futures, index options and options on individual stocks expired simultaenously. Some analysts warned part of the gain may be retraced next week. But there were signs Wall Street is getting used to the phenomeon which causes a huge burst of activity in the final minutes. Officials of the New York Stock Exchange said the day went smoothly and efficiently.     "This has been one of the few times that the consensus has been right," said Jim Creber, trader at Miller, Tabak, Hirsch and Co.     He expects a "follow-through" Monday and Tuesday to the advance which lifted the Dow Jones Industrial Average 34 points for the day and 75 points for the entire week.     Creber, whose firm was one of the first to get involved in arbitrage activity involving index futures and options, said the general trend of the market has been upward for months. "Every time the market comes in, somebody comes along with more money," he said.     He said investors adding to Individual Retirement Accounts prior to a mid-April tax deadline and buying from Japanese investors are apparently helping push stocks higher.     Ron Feinstein, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc, said reports of heavy Japanese buying, just prior to the end of the fiscal year in Japan, fueled bullish sentiment.     He said investors who had long positions in stocks hedged with short positions in index futures rolled the expiring March futures over into June contracts. But he added different players with other goals also were active and there was no simple explanation of the market's gyrations.     For example, Feinstein noted the June contract for the June Standard and Poor's 500 stock index future hit 300 about 15 minutes prior to the close of NYSE trading. In 12 minutes, the contracted dipped to 297.50. "That could have been a wave of selling from institutional people making a roll," he said.     It was the first time a nearby contract of the S and P 500 hit 300. The cash index closed at a record 298.17. "It looks like the market is going to continue to go higher," he said.     "Triple expirations didn't really mean that much, it was a strong day for stocks," said Steve Chronowitz of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co.     Chronowitz said the stock market has been underpinned by "good solid buying interest" which will cushion any pullback.     Other investors who were long futures and short stocks bought stocks on the close today instead of rolling over, said Mark Zurack of Goldman, Sachs and Co. He cautioned against "over-dramatizing" the day's activity, which said was more a reflection of fundamental strength in the markets.     Leigh Stevens of PaineWebber Group Inc said what he saw was mostly covering of short positions in stocks as index options and individual options expired. He said there could be a decline early next week in the stock market.     "It looked like it worked well today," said Howard Kramer, asssistant director of market regulation for the Securities and Exchange Commission. But he said all of the data will have to be analyzed next week.     He said there was relatively little commotion at the close, with about 50 mln shares changing hands in the final minute compared to 85 mln in the triple expirations three months earlier. He noted the Dow industrials jumped about 12 points in the closing minutes, a modest move for a 2333-point index.     Kramer pointed out an SEC-NYSE measure to curb volatility, disclosure of "market-on-close" orders in 50 major stocks 30 minutes prior to the end of trading, showed imbalances of modest proportions. The disclosures are aimed at evening out volatility by attracting orders on the opposite side of the imbalance.     The data showed more buy orders than sell orders for 47 stocks, a preponderance of sell orders for only one stock, and no significant imbalance for two stocks. The NYSE had tightened a rule governing what type of market on close orders can be accepted in the final half hour.  Reuter &#3;

