 9-APR-1987 17:35:06.68

EC WARNS AGAINST PASSAGE OF TEXTILE BILL

The European Community has told Congress that if textile legislation injuring EC interests is approved, there was no doubt the community would retaliate against U.S. exports.     Roy Denmam, head of the EC delegation here, issued the warning in a letter to Senator Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Finance Committee. A copy of the letter was provided Reuters.     Denmam told Bentsen, a Texas Democrat, that if the textile legislation passed on its own or was included in an omnibus trade bill and injured EC interests, "there should be no doubt that the EC will retaliate against the United States."     He added that "at a time when U.S. textile exports to the EC are growing rapidly, one result of such retaliation would be a substantial reduction of U.S. exports and jobs."     The textile legislation, backed strongly by the industry, hard hit by imports, and by senators from textile-producing states would impose new tough global quotas on textile imports and for the first time include Europe in the quotas.     Reagan Administration officials have also opposed the textile legislation, saying that if it passed it would likely prompt a presidential veto.     Denman made his comments on the textile issue in a general assessment of the Senate trade bill, titled S.490.     He said he was concerned about provisions in the Senate bill that would limit, if not eliminate, the president's discretion if retaliating against nations for keeping their home markets closed to foreign goods.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has also opposed those provisions, arguing that presidential flexibility was needed in order to be able to negotiate with countries to open their markets, with retaliation being retained as a final, but discretionary, weapon.     The pending overall trade legislation would force the Administration to consult often with Congress and seek its approval during step-by-step GATT negotiations.     He said "enactment of S. 490 would reduce the confidence of other governments in America's commitment to multinational trade."     Summing up the senate legislation, Denman said "a number of provisions of that bil may achieve the opposite of what is intended and lead to dangerous consequences for the world and the U.S. economy."  Reuter &#3;

