31-MAR-1987 05:21:16.69

TAIWAN BANKERS PREDICT MAJOR FINANCIAL REFORM

Taiwan is planning to significantly relax foreign exchange controls within the next few months, but there is little prospect of a sudden outflow of capital, bankers and economists polled by Reuters said.     They said a statement by Premier Yu Kuo-Hua last Friday that Taiwan might suspend the controls indicated the government was ready to allow Taiwanese firms and individuals to hold and invest foreign currency for the first time.     "There has been a major shift in government policy," said Liang Kuo-Shu, chairman of the Chang Hwa Commercial Bank.     Yu said foreign exchange controls, under which all foreign currency must be converted into Taiwan dollars, might be suspended if Taiwan's trade surplus grows too large. He said controls could be retained for use in an emergency.     Yu said the aim was to reduce Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves and ease pressure on the money supply.     The reserves have grown to a record 53 billion U.S. Dlrs, compared with about 26 billion in late March last year, due to Taiwan's widening trade surplus. The surplus hit a record 15.6 billion dlrs last year against 10.6 billion in 1985.     Approximately 95 pct of the surplus was with the U.S.     The surplus in the first two months of this year rose to 2.73 billion dlrs from 2.02 billion in the same 1986 period.     Money supply grew by a seasonally adjusted 48.22 pct in the year to end-february.     Bankers and economists said they did not believe the government intended to drop all foreign exchange controls and allow the Taiwan dollar to be freely traded.     But they said over the next few months certain restrictions will probably be eased to allow Taiwanese firms and individuals to hold part of their foreign exchange earnings for overseas investment.     Bankers and economists also said it was likely the government would lift a ban on investment in foreign stocks. They said it was uncertain, however, whether investment would be direct or channeled through government-approved funds.     Taiwan allowed firms and individuals to invest in overseas government bonds, treasury bills and certificates of deposit for the first time last year.     Bankers said Yu's statment was an indication the government is becoming increasingly concerned about the threat of inflation posed by the growing foreign exchange reserves.     Inflation is now running at about three pct.     Mounting reserves are also seen as giving Washington leverage in its efforts to force Taiwan to boost the value of its currency to reduce the trade imbalance.     Bankers said dropping foreign exchange restrictions was unlikely to lead to significant capital outflows because of the rising value of the Taiwan dollar.     "All the signs are that capital would move in," said John Brinsden, manager of Standard Chartered Bank in Taipei.     The Taiwan dollar has risen by about 16 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It opened today at 34.26 against the American currency.     Most economists believe the Taiwan dollar will continue to rise this year on strong U.S. Pressure for appreciation.     Economists estimate up to five billion U.S. Dlrs of speculative money flowed into Taiwan last year.     Yu's statement surprised most local and foreign bankers, who regard the former central bank governor as a fiscal arch-conservative. They said it shows Taiwan is determined to go ahead with wide-ranging financial liberalisation.     "It's more than a straw in the wind," said Brinsden. "It indicates that something dramatic will happen."  REUTER &#3;

