26-MAR-1987 05:39:20.94

PHILIPPINES TO PUT 100 STATE FIRMS UP FOR SALE

The head of a Philippine panel charged with selling the non-performing assets of government financial institutions said some 100 state-owned companies would also be put up for privatisation.     But David SyCip, chief executive trustee of the Asset Privatisation Trust (APT), told a meeting of financial executives the APT has not yet received a list of the firms.     "I believe lead investor groups, people who see long-term potential, are willing to buy such companies in full and do a hands-on job of running them," SyCip said.     SyCip said open bidding would be used to sell all assets handled by the APT. He said bidding would be either open-priced, if there were enough serious contenders, or the APT would set a target price for acquisition. He added that the target price did not constitute a rigid floor.     "What we consider an acceptable price is a price at which an investor will earn an adequate return," he said.     SyCip said the bulk of the APT's current work relates to the non-performing assets of the state-owned Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Philippine National Bank (PNB). The APT was set up in January.     SyCip said about 75 pct of the 400-odd assets that the DBP and the PNB are handing over to the APT are still in the form of financial assets.     "In some cases financial assets have been converted into physical assets by foreclosures. They are fairly cut and dried because we are dealing with mostly whole production facilities like textile or food-processing plants," he said.     "Financial assets are more complicated. The only recourse is to foreclose, gain titles, and try to sell the asset, but the laws here tend to favour the debtors," he added.     SyCip said although the APT is protected from prosecution by its charter, many debtors are tying up the panel with litigation.     "If you see some of the situations we have to work our way through you will see that our symbol, a Gordian knot, is an apt illustration," he said.     SyCip said the PNB has not succeeded in foreclosing on 16 of the 17 sugar factories it wants to sell because of the high costs involved. "When you do your arithmetic you realise that if you did foreclose your recovery would be only a fraction of the asset's book exposure," he said.     SyCip said the APT was not worried about whether associates of former President Ferdinand Marcos, who originally owned many of the bankrupt companies, would buy them back through the privatisation scheme.     "We just look at the bottom line, which is to monetise these assets to the maximum degree possible," he said. "We are selling for cash, it is not our concern where it comes from."     He said he had told cabinet ministers sceptical about the identities of buyers that "Marcos cronies" could easily put up legitimate fronts if they were specifically barred from bidding for assets on the block.     "I told them if I am paid 20 mln pesos in 100-peso bills, all with identical serial numbers and they look like genuine legal currency, then I would accept them'," SyCip said.     He said some participants in the government's debt-equity swap scheme were interested in buying non-performing assets with the pesos they receive from such deals. The problem is government regulations slow down approval of debt-equity plans and the APT normally demands full payment within 15 days.     "The Central Bank and Monetary Board could also look at investment funds earmarked for non-performing asset purchases," he said. "It would greatly facilitate matters."     SyCip said last month the APT hoped to recover about 24 billion pesos of the assets' total worth of 108 billion.     President Corazon Aquino announced earlier this month that proceeds from the sale of APT-controlled assets would be used to finance the government's land reform program, which aims to distribute about 9.7 mln hectares of land to poor peasants.     Asked why the APT did not favour Filipino buyers, SyCip said: "How much money has the country to lose because of this 'Filipinos first' slogan? How many people have become millionaires and then forgotten the Philippines and put their money in the United States or Australia?"  REUTER &#3;

