19-MAR-1987 18:38:12.77

DANGER OF ARBITRAGE TRADING DOWNPLAYED

Stock index-related arbitrage trading did not spark the dramatic drop in the U.S. stock market last September, nor is a free-fall in stocks and futures prices due to arbitrage trading a likelihood, a top official with the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, said.     Richard Ketchum, director of SEC's division of market regulation, told the Futures Industry Association that a commission study of the circumstances surrounding the plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average last September 11-12 shows stock index-related arbitrage trading those days was substantial but did not set off the price fluctuations.     "While index-related arbitrage trading was a very substantial part of the trading that day, it was by no means the predominant part," Ketchum said.     He said the study would be released next week.     Index-related arbitrage relates to efforts, primarily by institutional investors, to profit from price differentials by shifting funds between stock index futures and their underlying stocks.     Some commodity exchange officials fear federal regulators or Congress might move to restrict trading of stock index futures in an effort to curb stock price volatility.     Ketchum said the slide in stock prices was the result of a "fundamental change in investors' perceptions of economic conditions," triggered by "incorrect rumors" that West Germany was set to cut its discount rate.     The SEC study indicated the seven firms that accounted for most of the arbitrage trading those days made 127 program trades on September 11 and 117 trades September 12, accounting for only 17.5 pct of the "sell side of the New York Stock Exchange's volume," Ketchum said.     He also said there was virtually no options index-related arbitrage activity those days.     Ketchum called "triple witching days" -- the Fridays each quarter when stock index futures and options and opions on individual stocks expire simultaneously - a "relatively minor, overdone question" that has "relatively easy solutions."     Moreover, "futures do not appear to have an impact on long-term or probably even daily volatility," he said.     Finally, Ketchum said a free-fall in stocks and futures prices driven by program sell-offs of stock index futures and individual stocks was unlikely.     "We believe that the amount of money now available to come in on the other side of the market by institutions make it unlikely that that kind of snowballing effect would happen," he said.     But he said federal regulators could not discard the possibility and would continue to be concerned by the issue.  Reuter &#3;

