 2-MAR-1987 07:20:13.63

DIGITAL AUDIO TAPE PLAYERS GO ON SALE IN JAPAN

Japanese consumers hesitated about buying the controversial digital audio tape player (DAT) as it went on sale in Tokyo today, but said the DAT player's near-perfect sound will make it a success once it becomes cheaper.     "The sound is great, but I'll wait until more machines hit the market and prices fall to about 100,000 yen before buying one," said Terumi Fujitsuka, 35, a steel firm employee.     Aiwa, Sharp and Matsushita displayed their DAT players today although delivery will take about two weeks, retailers said. Aiwa's machine, the cheapest, is listed at 188,000 yen.     Machines by Sony, Hitachi, Toshiba and others will appear as early as the end of March, industry sources said.     DAT players can play back and record with fidelity superior to even a compact disc. They use a cassette half the size of the standard audio cassette and unlike conventional analogue machines, they can make copies an infinite number of times with almost no loss of sound quality.     This aroused fears in the music industry of widespread tape piracy and loss of royalties. In negotiations that delayed the DAT player's debut, the industry demanded anti-piracy circuitry be built into the machines.     Machines sold in Japan are fitted with a computer chip to prevent copying through a digital signal. But copies can still be made if the signal is routed through a regular amplifier. "Nobody can tell the difference," one salesman said.     DAT players have been kept off Western markets and some countries are considering banning them or imposing heavy duties unless tougher anti-piracy circuitry is added. But Japanese hardware makers, hard pressed for profits in the era of the high yen and growing competition, are eager to carve out a profitable niche.     Prices of DAT players will probably fall quickly, possibly to around 70,000 yen by next year as other makers put their products on the market, industry analysts said.     They said by 1990, sales could reach six mln units per year.     Philips of the Netherlands has said it will launch its DAT player on the world market later this year.  REUTER &#3;

