17-APR-1987 07:48:54.86

ASIA GENERALLY WELCOMES U.S. NIGHT FUTURES TRADING

Traders in financial centers in Asia generally welcomed the first U.S. Night session of futures trading which starts in Chicago on April 30.     Traders in Japan, Sydney and Hong Kong said they expected the move to bring benefits, but traders and bankers in Singapore said it posed a serious threat to the Singapore International Monetary Exchange (SIMEX).     The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in Washington gave unanimous approval to the Chicago Board of Trade's (CBT) proposals on Tuesday.     The CBT plans to offer futures on U.S. Treasury notes and bonds, and options on those futures, from 1800 to 2100 hrs Chicago time (2300 to 0200 gmt) on Mondays to Thursdays.     The sessions would mark the start of the trading day, which would end at the present close of business the next day.     The proposed hours are designed to coincide with the busiest morning trading hours in Japan.     But Andrea Corcoran, chief of CFTC's division of trading and markets, said on Tuesday she expected the evening sessions to attract primarily U.S. Firms looking for additional overnight protection.     Traders in Tokyo said the night sessions were expected to help expand U.S. Treasury bond trading volume and enlarge daily fluctuation ranges in Tokyo.     They said Japanese financial institutions were very interested in using overseas futures markets, but were waiting for finance ministry approval to do so. Approval is expected before the end of the month.     The foreign branches of financial institutions can already trade futures, but in practice make little use of them.     But, traders said the timing of the launch was poor, as it is in a ten day period when Tokyo has three public holidays.     The Tokyo traders said because of the holidays little interest in night trading could be expected until after May 5.     Tokyo bond managers said also that participation could be limited by a lack of experienced futures traders in Tokyo.     The Sydney Futures Exchange (SFE) hoped the four-hour trading overlap with the new CBT hours would boost activity in Sydney's eurodollar and U.S. Treasury bond contracts, spokesman Stephen Calder said.     The eurodollar contracts are linked to the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE).     Calder said turnover in both contracts had been disappointingly low since they were introduced last October.     He said the CBT move would broaden arbitraging opportunities for SFE traders.     "With a late evening lead from Chicago, there's also more chance that people will deal here in the afternoon," he said.     But in Singapore news of the CBT move was not welcomed.     A senior executive of a Japanese securities firm operating in Singapore told Reuters: "Expanding global links between futures markets mean that SIMEX must add Chicago and London and Sydney to its list of rivals."     "LIFFE could cut further into the SIMEX contract, with a U.S treasury bond contract that can be off-set on the CBOT," the Singapore-based Japanese trader said.     Such a contract is expected later this year, he said.     Other SIMEX traders said local interest in the Sydney treasury bond contract might be boosted if the Sydney exchange established a three-way link with Chicago and London. LIFFE has signed a memorandum of understanding with CBOT for such a link.     "If this link-up materializes, most traders are likely to by-pass SIMEX," said one trader.     Hong Kong commodity traders welcomed the CFTC's decision, though they added that local investors would have been more interested in financial futures.     "I think it is very good, because the move will help us to increase our market share here," said Joseph Tan, manager of <Bache Securities (HK) Ltd>.     He said that Bache, like many other local units of U.S. Commodity houses, had been participating in Chicago's rregular hours of trading for a long time and would like to extend its business.     Local Hong Kong houses also welcomed the move, but a spokesman for Shun Loong Co said investors would be more interested if stock index or currency futures were available.     Futures contracts in the local Hang Seng index have become increasingly popular since they were introduced to the market in May 1986.  (See ECRA for Spotlight Index)  REUTER &#3;

