26-MAR-1987 12:50:43.81

POLAND FIRM ON ECONOMY DESPITE CONCESSIONS

The Polish government has backed down from some proposed price rises in the face of strong opposition from trade unions, but has restated its commitment to economic reforms entailing tougher discipline and austerity measures.     Following a warning from the officially-backed OPZZ unions that sharp price hikes could spark confrontation, the government has agreed that food prices this year will rise an average 9.6 pct instead of the planned 13 pct.     A statement last night said the government had "partially accepted" demands for the protection of the low-paid and agreed to extend some social benefits.     But Polish leader Wojciech Jaruzelski, at a separate meeting yesterday, sharply criticised the slow pace of reforms.     He told an economic commission that tougher discipline and austerity measures, greater efficiency and initiative should replace waste, red tape and inertia. He announced cost-cutting measures affecting central administrative bodies.     OPZZ economic expert Zbigniew Kochan welcomed the move on food prices. "This decrease was considerable," Kochan told Reuters today. "Also important is the fact that the government admitted we were right and agreed to consult us over prices from now on," he added.     The communique made no mention of curbs on wage increases, or price rises in sectors including transport and energy.     The authorities have said prices could go up by as much as 26 pct as state subsidies are sharply reduced in an effort to make the market more free and to improve efficiency.     The OPZZ unions are officially recognised by the government and replaced the Solidarity movement suppressed under martial law. They claim a membership of seven million.     Western diplomats said today the climb-down on food prices was a limited concession. "This is a small price to pay if they can push through the other price rises," one said, adding that fuel and energy rises would have a more significant effect.     He noted that there had been a concerted media campaign to prepare people for price rises, including a major article in a mass-circulation women's magazine, "clearly aimed at those who do the shopping," he said.     Other articles in the official press this week have focused on coal, which sells to both industrial and private consumers at far less than either the production or export costs.     Countering scepticism from opposition sources and former Solidarity activists as to OPZZ's role, Kochan said "It was definitely not a question of gaining credibility, but true concern for people's living standards."     Deputy Prime Minister Jozef Koziol said the authorities' main aim was not to harm workers' living standards. But he was also quoted by the official PAP news agency as saying the government had to take current economic realities into account.  REUTER &#3;

