 4-MAR-1987 10:48:52.30

PS NEW MEXICO <PNM> STUDIES SYSTEM PARTNERSHIP

Public Service Co of New Mexico said it is evaluating placing its electric distribution system in a limited partnership with assets of about 400 mln dlrs.     The utility said it advised a customer task force this is one restructuring alternative being considered for the company's electric business.     The structure is being evaluated as part of the company's overall initiative in response to several goals announced by New Mexico Governor Garrey Carruthers, it explained.     Public Service New Mexico said a central feature of its reorganization concept would be to separate the company's electric utility operation into independent generation and distribution entities, creating the opportunity for a targeted 35 mln dlr a year rate decrease.     Noting the use of the limited partnership structure by a variety of businesses recently, the company said it believes "the concept may well have an application in the utility business and intend to investigate it fully."     The generation company would provide projected power needs of the distribution entity under a 30-year "power security agreement" which would have a federally regulated rate structure, the company said.     Public Service New Mexico said the restructuring could provide for its gas and water utilities and its non-utility companies becoming subsidaries of the proposed holding company approved by the company's shareholders in May 1986.     This holding company would be the general partner of the limited partnership, the company said.     The company said its limited partnership concept was presented to an ad hoc customer task force convened by Gov. Carruthers to review the company's reorganization proposals.     It said the reorganization and limited partnership are an alternative structure that would  help reduce rates through a lower overall cost of capital.     Last month the governor said "I have outlined to PNM critical goals which I have asked them to cooperate with may administration in achieving" adding the goals include immediate rate reduction, stabilization of future rates and stimulation of business expansion.     The company told the task force the new distribution company, under the limited partnership alternative or otherwise, would continue to be fully regulated by state regulators.     PNM's proposed generation company would continue to be owned by common shareholders through the holding company. Its rates would be set by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission which regulates for wholesale electric power sales and transmission services. The generation company would have no retail customers.     PNM said it expects to file a detailed restructuring plan with state regulators in the near future, noting approval would also be needed by FERC.  Reuter &#3;

