19-MAR-1987 13:07:24.81

TRIPLE-EXPIRATION MAY JOLT STOCK MARKET

The stock market could be jolted one way or another on Friday as the so-called triple witching expiration raises the specter of volatile movement.     The Dow Jones Industrial Average could soar or plunge as much as 100 points, or both, or even remain static, according to analysts of the stock and stock index futures markets.     The simultaneous expiration of March stock index futures contracts, options on these futures and options on the indexes themselves, along with options on individual stocks, has created a mad scramble during several previous "witching hours."     Upon expiration of these vehicles, investment managers must find a place for their funds, and in the past the final hour has seen a tremendous surge in New York Stock Exchange volume.     Analysts said the overriding influence of the stock market's steady climb this year -- and the absence of worthwhile investment alternatives -- may indicate that the major players will look to buy into the stock market as the final hour transpires this friday.     "I think there will be a substantial swap out of futures (positions) and into stocks," Jeffrey Miller, of Miller Tabak Hirsch and Co said. "(But) I've got a streak of four or five in a row of being right, so I'm bound to be wrong."     The feeling among some analysts is that the largest money managers will do the same thing they did at December's expiration when they plunged their multi-billion dollar funds into the stock market.     "Last time, during triple-expiration, there was a tremendous amount of stock sold, which was offset by huge buy programs late," said Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Inc analyst William Marcus.     Some stock funds quickly place newly arrived investment dollars into buying futures positions, Miller said. Then, upon the expiration of the futures, the manager looks to transform that into a stock portfolio, he said.     The coming month is also a seasonally strong period for the stock market, Stotler and Co analyst David Hightower said, because of the influx of income tax refunds.     Although Hightower recommended steering clear of trading during the witching hour, he suggested buying if the market plunges, believing that the slide would only be temporary.     Marcus said it was difficult to make a prediction as to which way the market will go on Friday, partly because many investors will be engaging in "window-dressing."     The public disclosure of order imbalances in individual stocks a half hour before the close may reveal an opportunity to those investors seeking either to buy or get rid of stocks, offsetting whatever impact the initial imbalances show.     Analysts said efforts by exchanges to quell the volatility on triple-expirations are unlikely to substantially alter the impact of futures and options on the stock market. Money managers are sure to find other types of loopholes that emerge under the new rules, they said.  Reuter &#3;

