13-APR-1987 11:15:47.79

WALL STREET STOCKS/TEXACO <QTX>, PENNZOIL <PZL>

Texaco Inc's decision to file for protection under the bankruptcy code had a chilling effect on its stock, and sent Pennzoil Co's shares sharply lower as well, traders said.     Texaco dropped 3-1/2 to 28-3/8 and Pennzoil fell 12-7/8 to 79-3/8.     "A lot of people had bid up Pennzoil, expecting a settlement of two to five billion dlrs in this case," energy analyst Rosario Ilacqua of L.F. Rothschild said, "and now nobody knows where this is going to settle out."     "It seems to me that the hope of an out of court settlement in this long running court case had a greater relative impact on Pennzoil's stock then on Texaco's," analyst Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said, citing the sharper decline in Pennzoil this morning.     The litigation arose when Pennzoil sued Texaco for interfering in its 1984 agreement to acquire Getty Oil. In 1985, a Texas state court ruled in favor of Pennzoil and ordered Texaco to pay 10.53 billion dlrs in damages.     Citing the burden of the court case and a Supreme Court ruling last week in favor of Pennzoil concerning the amount Texaco must put up as a bond while appealing the case, Texaco filed for the Chapter 11 protection on Sunday.     "That decision puts Pennzoil in the unsecured creditor catagory and that means they have lost their preferred position, which is causing the most damage to the stock today," Margoshes said. "They will only be able to collect payment after secured creditors have collected," he said.     "From the standpoint of the attractiveness of Texaco's stock," Margoshes said, "I have turned quite bullish."     "I think there is an overreaction in the downside of the (Texaco) stock today, with some investors believing that Texaco cannot effectively conduct its business. But only Texaco Inc and two subsidiaries are under protection, and there is no indication that they will not be able to proceed adequately," Margoshes said. In addition, he noted, "there are insitutions that just cannot legally--according to their own regulations--hold a stock that is in bankruptcy. That caused much of the selling at the opening," he said.     L.F. Rothschild's Ilacqua said "you have to wonder if an interim settlement can be reached between the two or if this thing is going to go the full legal route, and that is what investment decisions hinge on."     He said "if this whole thing settles with Texaco owing a lot less than the 10 billion dlrs, speculating in Texaco stock could be quite interesting." He expects the stock to trade 25 dlr to 30 dlr a share range for as long as it takes for a decision to made in the case.  Reuter &#3;

