 7-APR-1987 08:44:04.91

TREASURY'S BAKER TO HOLD TALKS ON ECONOMIC GROWTH

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker holds talks with counterparts from Europe and Japan today, to urge them to carry out commitments in a recent accord to speed their economic growth.     Baker is also expected to outline proposals for making agreements to coordinate economic policies more binding.     The bilateral discussions foreshadow full-blown talks of the Group of Five industrial countries joined later by Italy and Canada to form the Group of Seven.     The five comprise finance ministers and central bankers of the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain.     The Treasury Secretary is expected to see Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.     Baker and other finance ministers say they intend to reaffirm the Paris Agreement to buttress global economic growth, reduce trade imbalances and stabilize currencies.     Monetary sources said a short communique to that effect is expected after the meeting ends.     These talks form part of this week's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.     At the same time, monetary sources say they expect Baker to put forward proposals, originally outlined at the 1986 Tokyo Summit, to tighten procedures for policy coordination.     Washington wants other major nations to establish specific policy goals for economic growth, inflation, current account balance of payments, trade balances, budget performance, monetary conditions and currencies.     If actual economic performance veers sharply away from such objectives, then countries should consult on whether corrective action is necessary, the proposal says.     Monetary sources said there was some support for the proposal, which may not be made final until the Venice Economic Summit in June, but Britain and West Germany were firmly against any attempt to make corrective action automatic.     The U.S. Treasury team, led by Baker, has worked on this plan since last September, when it won the support of France.     Baker, meanwhile, will press Japan and West Germany to live up to their commitments, made over six weeks ago in Paris, to boost their domestic demand to absorb more imports.     He is also expected to reassure his counterparts that the Reagan administration will reach agreement with Congress on a significant budget deficit cut this year, helping to depress U.S. demand for imports.     The aim of the Paris Accord is to redress the huge imbalance between the trade surpluses of Tokyo and Bonn on the one hand, and Washington's massive trade deficit on the other.     Japan, in particular, is under pressure to come up with a meaningful stimulus package or face a further rise in the yen.     Financial markets appear to believe the yen should go higher against the dollar, a development that has become unacceptable in Japan.     The Paris Agreement, by the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada, called for currencies to be stabilized around current levels.     But the dollar fell again just several weeks after the agreement was reached, and its present stability is said to be temporary as dealers await the outcome of this week's talks.     Meanwhile, representatives of the leading Third World countries continue preparing their position for their ministers to present to industrial nations later this week.     Monetary sources said the so-called Group of 24 developing nations are preparing a very tough communique which brands the western strategy for shoring up the debt strategy as a failure.     They call instead for vast new assistance from the industrial world and a much greater role for the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.  Reuter &#3;

