31-MAR-1987 15:59:15.85

GM <GM> LABOR STRIFE PRECURSOR TO TOUGH TALKS

General Motors Corp's relationship with its hourly employees has turned ugly, and security analysts say the discord forebodes tough talks this fall on a new national labor contract at General Motors.     General Motors' dealings with the United Auto Workers, marred in recent months by strikes and a contract rejections, shows few signs of improving as it tries to regain the lead from Ford Motor Co <F> as the richest U.S. auto company.     Analysts say the automaker might have to endure a major strike this fall before the situation is resolved.     "There is a lot of tension between the workers and GM," says Michael Luckey, analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers.     Last week's four-day walkout by 9,000 UAW workers at Pontiac, Mich., follows longer strikes at two General Motors parts plants in the past year and rejection of proposed contracts at other facilities.     Analysts say the Pontiac strike will not be the last to hit the company.     Other plant strikes are likely, and chances are high that the UAW will call a company-wide walkout against GM this fall, says Luckey.     "There is a good chance there will be a strike," says Salomon Brothers analyst Jean-Claude Gruet.     "GM is acting as if they would welcome a strike," said Ron Glantz, analyst with Montgomery Securities.     "It has been my experience the UAW strikes people they don't like. They don't like GM," says Glantz.     General Motors might also be faced with wildcat strikes, or walkouts by local union units that are not endorsed by the union's central committee, analysts said.     General Motors will not comment on the talks, saying only it is seeking to become a "world-class competitor."     Elements for a tough set of labor talks are in place. "There is a lot of pressure on both sides. (General Motors chairman Roger) Smith is under pressure from stockholders. The union is fighting to protect its members. Something has got to give," Luckey says.     The consensus on Wall Street is that General Motors will be chosen as the "strike target", or the main company with which it will negotiate in the fall talks to decide the next three-year national contract.     "You get a feeling from talking with GM that they want to be the strike target because (they feel) Ford might capitulate too easily," says Glantz.     The negotiations, expected to begin in late July, will decide the major wage, benefit and job security issues that will cover most U.S. autoworkers. The current contract expires September 15.     Job security and "outsourcing", the  subcontracting of jobs to non-UAW labor, are expected to be the main issues.     "You're going to see a rough set of negotiations, particularly if they can't get the outsourcing issue decided," says one former General Motors human relations executive.     Some analysts point out that if the UAW decides to focus on wages, it might pick Ford as the strike target because of Ford's higher earnings last year.     "You may see a situation where the UAW bargains with the two separately," breaking its historical pattern, says Luckey.     The number of cars building up in dealer showrooms might indicate General Motors is preparing for a confrontation with the union, analysts say.     The company will have 95 days' supply of cars in dealer showrooms at the end of March, Lucky estimates. Analysts say 50 to 65-days' supply is normal.    General Motors wants to enter the negotiations "with enough inventory that it won't feel a six-week strike," says Glantz.     Some in the industry say that, despite the closing of 11 plants and indefinite layoff of 37,000 workers, further closings and layoffs might be coming.     A General Motors spokesman says it is "too early" to know whether plant closures will become an issue in the talks.     The former General Motors executive says more closures are likely after a new UAW agreement is reached, but he adds, "you're not going to see it before the contract," he says.     Lucky says 10 pct of General Motors's components plants are on the "red list" of companies likely to be shut. "It would take a miracle for them to survive," he says.  Reuter &#3;

