 9-APR-1987 12:42:10.84

U.S. TO PUSH STRONG SUMMIT AGRICULTURE STATEMENT

The United States will push for a strong statement from Western heads-of-state at the June economic summit in Venice, urging "comprehensive" negotiations on agriculture begin immediately to reduce domestic farm subsidies, the senior U.S. planner for the summit said.     "Agriculture has really become the number one international economic problem," Allen Wallis, undersecretary of state for economic affairs, told Reuters in an interview.     At the Tokyo economic summit last year, western leaders identified agriculture as a major international problem but made no specific recommendations. This year, Wallis said the U.S. will press for a statement instructing trade ministers to begin negotiating on the issue, and include domestic programs.     While the Western leaders, including president Reagan, will not conduct specific negotiations, Wallis said they can give a push to the agriculture talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).     Wallis said the leaders should endorse a "comprehensive" negotiation, which is interpreted as including domestic policies as well as import restraints and export subsidies.     "They (GATT talks) really have to deal with domestic policies, as well as trade arrangements," Wallis said.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has said a summit statement of support for agriculture talks is part of an overall U.S. strategy to build momentum for the GATT farm talks.     Public statements in recent weeks by several members of the Reagan cabinet have stressed the agriculture issue.     Yeutter and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will repeatedly discuss agriculture during a visit to Japan starting next week. Yeutter said agriculture will also be on the agenda of the trade ministers "quadrilateral" talks among Japan, the European Community, the U.S. and Canada this month.     And the ministerial meeting of the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, in May will highlight the agriculture problem, Yeutter said.     The OECD in May is expected to release a study of domestic farm subsidies which shows that Japan has the highest subsidies among industrial countries, but aid to farmers is also generous in the EC and United States.     The controversial OECD study calculated a measure of farm subsidies called the Producer Subsidy Equivalent, PSE, which allows farm aid to be compared across countries.     Some officials including British Agriculture Minister Michael Jopling, have said the PSE could be useful as a method of negotiating lower domestic farm subsidies worldwide.     However, the State Department's Wallis said while the PSE can be useful in negotiations, it has shortcomings and "its not definitive."     He and other U.S. officials said the Reagan administration has not yet reached a decision on a specific U.S. agriculture proposal to present to the GATT.     "I would expect it (U.S. proposal) to be in the fall," after the series of international meetings, Wallis said.     At preliminary meetings of the GATT agriculture committee, the United States has pushed for the so-called "freeze and rollback" approach. Subsidies would first be frozen at current levels, then rolled-back jointly in stages.     However, the Reagan administration perplexed some trade analysts recently by reacting cooly to a plan by Australian prime minister Bob Hawke calling for a similar approach. Hawke unveiled a seven-point plan to freeze and subsequently reduce the gap between high farm price supports and world prices.     Australia is leading a the so-called Cairns group of 13 coutries pressing for freer agriculture trade.     "The proposals that the so-called Cairns group are coming up with seem to be focusing on short-run, quick fixes which is not what we think is what's called for here," Wallis said.     Wallis and other said the U.S. wants a "long-range" solution to the agriculture problem.     U.S. officials also have criticized the Australian proposal because they said it deals primarily with the difference between domestic prices and world levels in the EC and U.S., but fails to focus on the question of market access.     At the same time the U.S. is rejecting the Australian "quick fix", Wallis said the U.S. will press at the summit for a declaration urging that agriculture talks be completed "expeditiously", or within two years.     The unstated U.S. strategy, U.S. officials said, is to keep the pressure on the EC this year through the export enhancement program and lower value of the dollar, in the hope that a sweeping agriculture agreement is possible in 1988.  Reuter &#3;

