13-APR-1987 10:36:11.97

PENNZOIL<PZL> TO CONTEST TEXACO <QTX> BANKRUPTCY

Pennzoil Co lawyers said they plan to file documents challenging Texaco Inc's Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in the Southern District of New York.     John Jeffers, a Houston lawyer representing Pennzoil in its 10.53 billion dlr dispute with Texaco over the acquisition of Getty Oil Co, said he expected the challenge to be filed sometime this week.     "We'll challenge it as a bad faith filing," Jeffers told Reuters following a brief hearing before a Texas State Court of Appeals.     The court had been scheduled to hear arguments on a Texaco motion to reduce the amount of bond required for it to appeal the judgement.     Instead, the court agreed with Texaco lawyers that the issue was moot because of Texaco's bankruptcy petition filed yesterday that stays all of its debts and obligations.     "We think they abused the process," Jeffers said, referring to Texaco's bankruptcy filing.     D. J. Baker, a lawyer representing Texaco, told reporters that the nation's third largest oil company was forced to seek bankruptcy protection because of its precarious fianncial condition and problems with suplliers and bankers stemming from the 10.53 billion dlr judgement.     "All activity after the filing can be conducted on normal business terms," Baker said.     He said Texaco would seek permission from the court to continue its appeal in Texas courts of the Pennzoil judgement.     "There will be no bond required because all state court litigation has been stayed," Baker said.     When asked whether Texaco's reorganization plan would include major restructuring of the company, Baker declined to say what the eventual plan might include.     "I think Texaco will succesfully complete its Chapter 11 proceedings and have a reorganization plan approved by the court," he said.     Baker said Texaco expected Pennzoil to seek a seat on a creditors' committee to be appointed by the bankruptcy courts but added he did not know whether Texaco would oppose such an attempt.     Lawyers for both sides also said that each company continued to be interested in a possible settlement, but declined to say whether any negotiations were scheduled between the two companies.     "Texaco has tried to settle and will continue and try and settle," Baker said.     The two companies reportedly remain far apart in what each considers to be a fair settlement, with Pennzoil seeking between three and five billion dlrs, while Texaco has maintained it cannot pay more than about one billion dlrs, according to analysts.  Reuter &#3;

