20-OCT-1987 17:35:13.94

REAGAN SAYS HE IS WILLING TO NEGOTIATE ON BUDGET

President Reagan said he had ordered the administration to begin talks with congressional leaders on a budget deficit reduction plan.     Reagan said in a statement following a meeting with his top economic advisers that he was prepared to order across the board spending cuts to comply with a Federal balanced budget law, but preferred to negotiate with Congress.     He said he would consider anything the congressional leadership proposed, but a spokesman said he remains opposed to raising taxes as a way to reduce the deficit.     "I think it is preferable, if possible that the executive and legislative branches reach a budget deficit reduction package. Accordingly, I am directing that discussions be undertaken with the bipartisan leadership of the Congress for that purpose," Reagan said.     Asked whether he would consider raising taxes, Reagan said "I am willing to look at whatever proposal they might have."     As Reagan boarded the helicopter to visit his wife Nancy at Bethesda Naval Hospital, he was questioned as to whether that meant he was softening on his tax stance. Reagan replied "if you heard that it must have been the helicopter."     White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater later told reporters that Reagan was not changing his opposition to tax increases. Fitzwater said the administration would accept automatic cuts under the Gramm Rudman balanced budget law rather than raise taxes.     Earlier on Tuesday congressional leaders called for an economic summit with the White House to address the nation's budget and trade deficits that some analysts say were partly to blame for the stock market drop.     Reagan said he would be willing to participate personally in any negotiations with Congress.     The White House earlier seemed to reject the idea of negotiating with Congress on the budget deficit.     Fitzwater said this morning that the White House continued to oppose a budget summit with Congress on the grounds that it would be used by Democrats as a platform to press for a tax increase.     But Reagan announced his willingness to negotiate with Congress after meeting for about an hour with White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker, Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and chief economic adviser Beryl Sprinkel.  Reuter &#3;

