18-JUN-1987 23:52:30.35

AUSTRALIA'S OPPOSITION FACES SETBACK ON TAX PLAN

The conservative opposition, already fighting an uphill election battle, now faces controversy in its own ranks over a possible error in its major tax cutting program, economists said.     Professor Michael Porter, architect of the tax plan, declined to refute Treasurer Paul Keating's charge that the opposition miscalculated tax and expenditure cuts by several billion dollars. Economists said the opposition, trailing behind Labour in opinion polls, would find its chances further diminished if its tax policy was a miscalculation.     The tax plan, unveiled by opposition leader John Howard last week, is the cornerstone of the Liberal Party's economic strategy to oust the Labour Party in the July 11 poll.     Keating has said the Howard tax plan would sharply increase the budget deficit to more than nine billion dlrs and severely damage Australia's economy, already overburdened with balance of payments and foreign debt problems.     In his mini-budget on May 13, Keating said the budget deficit for the year ending June 1988 would be between two and three billion dlrs.     Porter, a key member of the opposition economic think tank, said he played a leading role in formulating the tax plan but not Howard's proposed expenditure savings, which Keating claimed were distorted through double counting.     Some opposition members said there appeared to be errors, but a Liberal Party spokesman refused comment, saying the package was being reexamined.     "The whole thing is so deceitful," Prime Minister Bob Hawke said in a radio interview. "Howard has made a mess of it. If they can't govern themselves, how can they expect to govern the country?"     Hawke, who is seeking a third term, said the opposition had made the election one of the easiest for him.     "I've never felt more physically and mentally relaxed (during an election). We've no problems at all," he said.     The latest public opinion poll, published in the Melbourne Sun newspaper, showed Labour was leading the opposition by 12 points, indicating a 66-seat majority for Hawke in parliament.     The Election Commission announced last night that 613 candidates would contest the 148-seat House of Representatives, while 255 candidates would fight for the 76 Senate seats.  REUTER &#3;

