29-JUN-1987 02:02:24.21

SOUTH KOREAN RULING PARTY ANNOUNCES REFORM PACKAGE

South Korea's ruling party announced a reform package which includes a recommendation for direct presidential elections.     There was no immediate reaction from President Chun Doo Hwan but Democratic Justice Party (DJP) chairman Roh Tae-woo, who unveiled the reforms, vowed to resign if they were rejected.     Roh, whose confirmation as government candidate to succeed Chun sparked weeks of massive demonstrations around the country, said he would withdraw his candidacy and quit his DJP post if Chun failed to accept the package.     "I have reached the conclusion that I cannot but choose the direct presidential election system to overcome social confusion and achieve national compromise," Roh said.     There was no immediate indication of how soon Chun would react to Roh's proposals or whether he was involved in their formulation.     The president, who took office in 1980 following a military coup, is due to step down next February after elections which had tentatively been set for December.     Under Roh's package, Chun would remain president until his successor was chosen by direct elections. At present, the president is chosen through an electoral college system which the opposition says is stacked in favour of the DJP.     Among other major changes, the package offers a release of most political prisoners, a guarantee of human rights and a free press.     Kim Young-sam, head of the opposition Reunification Democratic Party, said, "I wholeheartedly welcome Chairman Roh's announcement, though it was a belated measure."     A Western diplomat told Reuters "It's a very substantial, very courageous move."     The second surprise in Roh's proposals was an amnesty for leading dissident Kim Dae-jung, who has been banned from politics because of a suspended sentence for sedition charges.     The only opposition demand which is not met by Roh's package is the RDP's insistence that Chun should step down immediately.  REUTER &#3;

