 5-APR-1987 06:13:27.54

BRITISH MINISTER GOES TO TOKYO ASKING FREER ACCESS

Britain's corporate affairs minister left for Tokyo saying he planned to present Japanese authorities with a timetable for obtaining fair market access for his country's goods and financial services.     "I should be expecting a positive response to that timetable," the minister, Michael Howard, said.     He said the response was expected by next month, but reiterated his belief that Britain would not have to invoke a new law allowing a ban on Japan's banks and insurance firms from trading in London if it failed to reciprocate in Tokyo.     "I don't think that talk of a trade war is justified in any event ... I think the Japanese are going to realize that it's important that access should be available."     The Conservative British government decided on Thursday to bring forward legislation allowing the possible imposition of a ban against foreign countries failing to allow reciprocal market access. It is due to take effect in three weeks.     Twenty-nine Japanese banks, nine insurance companies and 58 securities houses currently operate in London, while only five British banks and eight securities firms are licensed in Japan.     "We are sure reasonable men will come to a reasonable solution," said a spokesman for <Nomura International>, the biggest of the Japanese securities firms in London which could be targetted.     The government decided to rush provisions of the Financial Services Act into effect largely in response to the failure of Cable and Wireless <CAWL.L> to gain what it considers a satisfactory stake in one of two consortia seeking to compete in Japan's international telephone business.     However, British economists say the use of financial services countermeasures in the trade dispute would hurt Britain more than Japan.     The British press expressed concern that was Howard was travelling with counterproductive or irrelevant ammunition.     The Daily Telegraph commented that an unfortunate minister was being "despatched to Tokyo armed with a pistol pointing at his own foot." The Financial Times urged Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to avoid provoking a "nasty backlash" from Tokyo.     Japan appeared to be making no concessions ahead of Howard's trip and Trade and Industry Secretary Paul Channon on Friday sought to dispel some of the growing concern over the dispute.     "We don't want a trade war," he said. "We're not interested in trade wars."      But Channon made plain the government was determined that British firms should have the same opportunites in Japan as Japanese firms have in Britain and wanted a timetable set for this purpose.  REUTER &#3;

