 9-APR-1987 14:29:59.02

TEXACO CANADA <TXC> LIKELY NOT IN A TEXACO PACT

Texaco Canada Inc, 78 pct owned by Texaco Inc <TX>, likely would not form any part of a possible settlement in a 10.3 billion U.S. dlr legal battle between Texaco Inc and Penzoil Co <PZL>, Texaco Canada chief executive Peter Bijur told reporters.     "I just just don't believe that it (Texaco Canada) would be part of any settlement," Bijur said during a interview.     Bijur said he could not comment directly on the Texaco-Penzoil dispute, adding he had no first-hand information concerning efforts by Texaco and Penzoil to resolve the matter.     "We don't have any problems that I am aware of that are a result of that litigation in the United States, and we continue to do business on a normal, 'business as usual' basis," Texaco Canada's Bijur told reporters during an interview session.     As previously reported, Texaco Inc is seeking a court order to block Pennzoil from taking action to secure a 10.3 billion dlr judgement against Texaco.     In reply to a query, Bijur said Texaco Inc has imposed no spending retraints on Texaco Canada as it continues previously reported efforts to make an energy-related acquisition.     After considering making an acquisition for several months, Texaco Canada set up a "business development team" of five people about one month ago to increase its efforts, Bijur said. The company has also widened the scope of its search to include candidates involved in refining and marketing as well as production segments of the industry.     "We're going to widen the scope of our view. We're going to look at the downstream and we're going to look at the entire petroleum business," he said.     Bijur declined to specify how much money Texaco Canada would spend on an acquisition.     Bijur said the company was not close to concluding any acquisitions and declined to specify when he expected a transaction might be made. "We're not in a hurry," he said.     Texaco Canada said in the annual report it had a cash position of 808 mln dlrs at the end of 1986, and Bijur said the company's cash fund has not changed materially during the first quarter.     Commenting on earnings results, Bijur said he expected first quarter profit to be lower than last year's earnings of 84 mln dlrs or 70 cts a share, due to lower profit contribution from production because of lower oil prices. REUTER^M &#3;

