19-OCT-1987 11:05:20.61

FINANCIAL CORP <FIN> LOAN SALES DOWN IN QTR

Financial Corp of America, in reporting a third quarter loss, said gains on the sale of loans and mortgage-backed securities, which has been the company's main source of profit during the past two years, fell to 12.4 mln dlrs as compared to a 93.4 mln in the third quarter last year.     It said the income was reduced by adverse interest rate fluctuations during the quarter.     The company also said it made an additional provision of 70.4 mln dlrs to its reserve for losses on loans and real estate, compared with 76.2 mln dlrs a year ago.     Financial Corp said its reserve totaled 1.00 billion dlrs at September 30, 1987, compared with a total of 580.4 mln at the same time a year ago.     Financial Corp, the nation's largest thrift, reported a third quarter loss of 75.8 mln dlrs, or 2.20 dlrs per share, compared with an 11.6 mln dlr profit last year.     At the end of the quarter scheduled items, or non- or under-performing assets, were 1.34 billion dlrs, or 4.01 pct of total regulatory assets, down from 1.77 billion, or 5.20 pct of assets at the end of the 1986 third quarter, the company said.     In reporting third quarter results the company also said its highest priority is to raise capital and strengthen its financial base.     "We are responsible to our shareholders and therefore are exploring several alternatives for achieving value while raising capital.     "Any proposal to acquire or restructure the company will be viewed by management from this perspective," Financial Corp chairman William Popejoy said in a statement.     Last month Financial Corp executives and Federal Home Loan Bank Board members met to discuss a restructuring of FCA, with help from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp, as a possible solution to the company's financial difficulties.     In addition, Ford Motor Co's <F> First Nationwide Financial Corp, has acknowledged that it is interested in acquiring the company.     Financial Corp has said it needs about one billion dlrs to bring its regulatory net worth up to Federal Government requirements.     In  addition, Financial Corp said its real estate group sold properties totaling 154.8 mln dlrs in book value before reserves during the quarter and 435.5 mln dlrs of real estate for the nine months to September 30.     The company also said it had a net deposit decrease of 415.4 mln dlrs during the quarter, resulting mainly from institutional deposits reacting to the company's pricing strategy and to its efforts to manage the cost of funds.  Reuter &#3;

