 2-JUN-1987 03:23:57.27

SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET STARTS WELL

Singapore's government securities market had performed well in volume terms since its launch on May 7 but there were constraints to further growth, bankers and dealers said.     Lawrence Yeo, director of securities trading and distribution for Citicorp Investment Bank (Singapore) Ltd, told Reuters there was a shortage of non-professional corporate, institutional and private investors trading in fixed income securities, especially those with long term funds. The market trades treasury bills and bonds.     Available liquid funds were still moving into traditional investments because share prices were rising and returns were low on fixed income securities, Yeo said.     He said the lack of market information and investment education for potential investors were limiting factors.     Referring to the securitisation of corporate debt, he said "If the saving between a traditional bank loan and a public offering is not great, investors prefer to take the loan because it does not require the public disclosure of information."     William K.K. Wong, managing director of Indosuez Asia (Singapore) Ltd, said institutional investors this year had focussed on the equity market rather than bonds.     Bankers and analysts said the new market would pave the way for the development of corporate bond issues.     The bankers said development of an active fixed income securities market would encourage more private and public companies to issue debt instruments.     They said they hoped the risk-free government bond yield curve would provide a benchmark for corporate bonds and other debt instruments.     Economists and bankers said the recent share offer by Sembawang Maritime Ltd, which was oversubscribed 92.3 times and which raked in a record 6.80 billion dlrs, showed the flow of liquidity into the share market. The previous record of 1.96 billion dlrs was set in April by Avimo Singapore Ltd.     Wong said total average daily turnover of the government securities market had fallen sharply due to share issues.     He said there were at most seven active participants, mainly banks. Other financial institutions were on the sidelines because the securities market concept was new.     Wong said the recent revision of the minimum liquid asset ratio to 18 pct allows banks to restructure liquid assets and inject more long term funds into the securities market.     One of the primary dealers, United Overseas Bank Ltd, has an average daily turnover of over 100 mln dlrs but this could rise to 300 mln on active option days, deputy manager Ho Kian Fah told Reuters.     Ho said major participants, besides the primary and registered dealers, were mainly U.S. And U.K. Banks which showed a willingness to quote prices.     Loh Hoon Sun, general manager of the Overseas Union Bank Ltd, said he forsees active trading and bidding of new offerings in pre-issued business. Loh estimated OUB's average turnover to be around 50 mln to 100 mln dlrs on active days.     Dealers said a significant factor was that the t-bill and money market rate yield gap had narrowed, making rates for bills more competitive with those in the money market.     Tan Mong Tong, executive director of National Discount Co Ltd, told reporters the new securities market would enable banks, statutory bodies, insurance companies to manage their funds more flexibly.     The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) plans to issue eight to 10.5 billion dlrs of taxable instruments in the first year and a gross issue of 35 billion dlrs over five years.     The first issue of 300 mln dlrs worth of T-bills by the MAS was 1.9 times subscribed while the first issue of 500 mln dlrs worth of five-year bonds was three times oversubscribed. The recent issue of 300 mln dlrs of two-year bonds received 1.17 billion dlrs in applications.     The new securities market operated by MAS on an electronic book entry system will provide new investment outlets intended to develop Singapore's capital market, bankers said.     But the market is new and long term success and expansion will depend on how the MAS and the primary and registered dealers stimulate activity, the bankers and analysts said.     They said it was necessary to promote liquidity because investors did not negotiate frequently enough and tended to hold on to their investments.     They advocated the establishment of a market makers association to help investors understand the market and its instruments as a lack of speculative activity limits market turnover and supply.  REUTER &#3;

