 9-MAR-1987 19:49:34.45

AUSTRALIAN WAGE RISE SET AT 10 DLRS A WEEK

The Arbitration Commission awarded the Australian workforce a flat 10 dlrs a week wage increase and allowed trade unions to begin bargaining for a second-tier increase of up to four pct, Commission President Justice Barry Maddern said here.     The decision is effective from the next pay period of individual employers, he said in delivering the Commission's National Wage Case decision.     Full-time adult ordinary time weekly earnings are 453.00 dlrs a week for males and 428.40 dlrs for all adults, according to latest official statistics.     The wage decision is the first under the previously announced two-tier system which replaced the concept of wage indexation. It is the first national wage rise since a partially-indexed increase of 2.3 pct was awarded by the Commission last July.     The decision is a compromise between the Federal government's call at the Wage Case hearing for a 10 dlr weekly rise plus a three pct second-tier ceiling and the Australian Council of Trade Unions' (ACTU) claim of 20 dlrs and up to four pct.     Employer groups had sought no rise at all.     The Commission is willing to convene another Wage Case in October to establish if another wage increase of up to 1.5 pct should be awarded, Maddern said.     He said the success of the new system depended on the commitment of all parties - employers, unions and governments.     He said the Commission had rejected employers' calls for a freeze on overall labour cost increases.     "We do not think that such an outcome is feasible, given the needs and expectations of wage and salary earners,' he said, adding a freeze could have destroyed the possibility of a cooperative effort to lift Australia's economic performance.     The decision would ensure the effects of the depreciation of the Australian dollar and the adverse terms of trade would not be reflected in wage increases, Maddern said.     If necessary, it would arbitrate second-tier claims at an implementation rate of no more than two pct from September this year and a further two pct from July 1988, he said.     He said labour cost rises would be phased in over the life of the package, adding that second-tier rises will be mainly achieved by a restructuring and efficiency principle, covering elimination of restrictive work practices, improved efficiency and productivity and reduction of demarcation disputes.     Maddern said the Commission again ruled out claims for a cut in weekly working hours below 38 and allowed employers to be exempted from wage case decisions on the basis of severe or extreme economic adversity.     The Commission said the poor economic outlook noted in its last decision had persisted, and was perhaps now more serious.     "The prevailing uncertainty and lack of confidence in the economy which underlines the economic circumstances must be allayed to halt further decline and to turn the economy around. In this connection, what happens to labour costs is of critical importance," he said.  REUTER &#3;

