 7-APR-1987 09:12:02.62

BC-WORLD-HIGHLIGHTS

Iran reported launching a new offensive east of Iraq's southern city of Basra, while Baghdad said its forces had repulsed the attack, killing thousands of Iranians.     - - - -     BEIRUT - Rescue workers planned to evacuate wounded from Palestinian refugee settlements in Beirut in a bid to relieve the plight of the besieged community, Palestinian sources said.      - - - -     CAIRO - Egypt's opposition charged that yesterday's general election was rigged, as early results showed President Hosni Mubarak's ruling National Democratic Party (NDP) heading for a big majority in Parliament.      - - - -     ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium - A stricken British car ferry, in which up to 140 bodies could still be trapped, rose slowly from the North Sea in a mammoth salvage operation off the coast.      - - - -     BUENOS AIRES - Pope John Paul, starting a one-week tour of Argentina, told politicians they should always defend human rights and that even in difficult situations no government had a right to respond to violence with violence.     - - - -     TOKYO - Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party outlined a package of economic measures, under mounting protectionist pressure from the United States. Meanwhile, visiting British Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard told Japan to resolve a telecommunications row with his country or face an abrupt deterioration in trading relations.      - - - -     MANILA - Communist rebels said they had destroyed a vital military communications station in the Northern Philippines and an army spokesman said seven rebels were killed in a gun battle in the southern region.      - - - -     BELFAST - Mourners clashed with police at an Irish Republican Army (IRA) funeral in Northern Ireland, prisoners rioted in a high-security jail and guerrillas attacked security bases.      - - - -     FREETOWN, Sierra Leone - Sierra Leone's former vice-president Francis Minah, sacked two weeks after a failed coup, has been detained on suspicion of involvement in the plot, police sources said.      - - - -     BELGRADE - Over 2,000 Yugoslav firms with almost 600,000 workers are heading for bankruptcy, a trade union chief said. Newspapers quoted union leaders as saying recent strikes would be aggravated when the authorities force loss-making companies to shut down.      - - - -     BRUNSWICK, West Germany - A former chief of foreign exchange at Volkswagen has been arrested in connection with a scandal which may have cost the carmaker millions of dollars, the chief state prosecutor said.      - - - -     NEW DELHI - Hindus staged their biggest-ever rally in Delhi to press their claim against India's Moslem minority for control of a shrine disputed by the two faiths.  REUTER &#3;

