16-MAR-1987 11:07:00.92

IRAN PROBERS AGREE ON IMMUNITY FOR POINDEXTER

Congressional investigators of the Iran-contra scandal have tentatively agreed to grant immunity from prosecution to a star witness --President Reagan's former national security adviser John Poindexter, congressional sources said today.     Sources told Reuters the chief counsels of the two special committees probing the two-year episode that has darkened the White House image plan to take their preliminary accord to court-appointed special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, possibly today or tomorrow.     The tentative accord follows weeks of negotiating with Walsh and with committee members.    Poindexter would be the highest ranking official to be granted immunity in the investigations of the 1985-1986 arms sales to Iran to gain release of hostages held in Lebanon and the clandestine shifting of arms profits to arm U.S.-backed rebels in Nicaragua, at a time aid would have been illegal.     If the agreement --reached on Friday by Arthur Liman and John Nields, chief legal advisors of the Senate and House committees respectively --is ratified as expected by Walsh and the full committees, closed door interviews could be held with Poindexter in two months with public testimony in about 90 days or mid June, sources said.     "They have tentatively reached an agreement and are supposed to meet with Walsh or his deputies," a source told Reuters of the deliberations by the two chief counsels     Sources said Poindexter could assist investigators determine what Reagan knew about the diversion of funds from arms sales to Iran to rebels in Nicaragua, if anything.     Reagan has denied knowing about the shift of funds although he has admitted he gave orders to sell arms through Israel in either August or after the first shipment in September 1985, but can't remember when. Congress was kept in the dark about the affair until last autumn.     "He will be a credible witness," one source said of the pipe-smoking Poindexter.      Besides Reagan's knowledge, or lack of it, another key unanswered questions lingering from earlier congressional investigators and a special presidential review board, is who received  millions of dollars from clandestine arms profits.       So far the money trail uncovered by probers stops at secret Swiss and Cayman Islands bank accounts.     The committees have been privately negotiating with Walsh over the immunity matter, and the prosecutor, also called an independent counsel, has been urging the committees to hold off on their request for at least 90 days.     Under the tentative accord, the wishes of Walsh could be met since public testimony is not expected before 90 days.     Poindexter, a Navy vice admiral, along with his fired deputy at the National Security Council, Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North, have refused to testify before investigators, claiming their fifth amendment rights against self incrimination.     Yesterday, Vice President George Bush said in a a television interview that he disagreed with Maureen about court martials, but he too disclaimed any details of diverted funds.     So far, granting immunity to compel testimony from reluctant witnesses has been granted to five persons--with the key figure so far, shadowy California international arms merchant Albert Hakim.     Also, getting immunity has been North's attractive personal secretary, Fawn Hall, who was said to have assisted North in shredding documents in his White House basement office after the scandal broke.  Reuter &#3;

