18-MAR-1987 07:08:35.67

JAPAN TO ADOPT ITS LARGEST-EVER PROVISIONAL BUDGET

A parliamentary boycott by opposition members has forced the government to compile its largest-ever provisional budget, finance ministry officials said.     The 7,900 billion yen budget for the first 50 days of fiscal 1988 starting April exceeds the previous record of 3,040 billion yen for an 11-day budget in fiscal 1984.     An on-again, off-again parliamentary boycott by opposition parties over a proposed five pct sales tax has prevented passage of the full 1987/88 budget within the current year ending March 31.     The stop-gap budget, which is expected to pass parliament on March 31, is designed to respond to mounting calls for economic stimulus from domestic industries, hard hit by the yen's sharp rise, officials said.     It will include as much as 1,800 billion yen for public works, about 30 pct of the 6,000 billion yen earmarked for such works in the full budget. Traditionally, a provisional budget covers only day-to-day mandatory expenses.     The government also expects the budget to meet pressure from trading partners for an expansion of Japanese domestic demand, they said.     The budget includes expenditures for a program to create 300,000 jobs and other reflationary measures, the officials said.     They quoted ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) secretary general Noboru Takeshita as telling opposition party officials yesterday that the budget should include as much pump-priming as possible.     Economists said confidence of opposition members in their campaign to scrap the sales tax has been heightened by their success in forcing the adoption of a stop-gap budget and could lead to even further delays in passing the full budget.     The result may be that the government will have to delay its planned announcement of a set of pump-priming measures in April, economists said.     That package is expected to include a plan to carry out more than 80 pct of total 1987/88 public works in the first half of the fiscal year, a government official said.     Japanese press reports said some LDP executives suggested Nakasone may have to give up plans to visit Washington in April because of the sales tax confrontation. Nakasone hopes to meet President Reagan to prepare for the economic summit of seven major industrial democracies in June, they added.  REUTER &#3;

