 8-APR-1987 10:58:23.92

REPORT SEEKS TO DISALLOW SOUTHERN <SO> COSTS

An audit submitted to the Georgia Public Service Commission claims that between 944 mln dlrs and 1.8 billion dlrs of the costs of the Plant Vogtle nuclear power station should be disallowed, a Southern Co spokeswoman said.     Southern's Georgia Power Co subsidiary has a 45.7 pct interest in the plant and estimated earlier this year it would cost a total of 8.87 billion dlrs. Last year, the plant's owners pledged to Georgia regulators they would limit the cost passed on to rate payers to 8.4 billion dlrs.     The Southern spokeswoman said the company feels the report by O'Brien-Kreitzberg is "flawed and biased." She said the report was released yesterday by the state attorney general.     Responding to the report today, Georgia Power Chairman Robert W. Scherer told a news conference the conclusions drawn by the firm "are not only wrong -- they also reflect the same bias against nuclear power that these auditors have demonstrated in similar cases accross the country."     Saying he was not suggesting Georgia power was without fault, Scherer said "the audit identified several things I wish we had done differently."     Scherer pointed out a report O'Brien-Kreitzberg submitted to Georgia regulators in March 1986 projected Georgia Power would not finish Plant Vogtle unit one before the end of 1987.     Noting "unit one is finished, and we expect it to be in commercial operationg by June," he said the firm's latest report ignored the earlier projection, gave the utility no credit for the completion and "actually penalized us by suggesting that costs to maintain t he schedule be disallowed."     Scherer said the latest audit alleges Georgia Power could have saved 95 mln dlrs if it had stopped using four shifts, seven days a week to speed construction three years sooner.     He said this would have delayed completion of the plant for another year "and it would have cost several hunderd million dlrs more."     Noting the audit said costs were increased 600 mln dlrs by schedule delays totaling 20.5 months, he said "First, we have the best concrete placement record in the industry, Second new government regulations after the Three Mile Island incident significantly increased construction time.      Reuter &#3;

