30-MAR-1987 13:02:05.05

NIGERIA TO ISSUE 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF NOTES

Nigeria plans to issue on April 7 a further 1.5 billion dlrs in short-term promissory notes to its uninsured trade creditors in connection with existing arrears on those debts, Law Debenture Trust Corp Plc said as trustee for the notes.     It said Nigeria also plans to hold talks with a newly appointed representative for those creditors fairly soon, and that Nigeria also will call "at an early date" an extraordinary meeting of noteholders, including holders of the new notes. The purpose of that meeting will be to consider a resolution to the arrears on the trade debt and the promissory notes.     Nigeria missed the first principal payment due on the notes last autumn and another payment of about 30 mln dlrs that was due in early January because of a cash shortage, which stemmed partly from the drop in oil prices last year.     An official of the Law Debenture Trust said he did not know when the new representative for the noteholders, David Murison, would meet the Nigerians. He noted the Nigerians currently are attempting to negotiate bilateral agreements with members of the Paris Club of western creditor governments under a multilateral pact on these debts reached in December. So far, bilateral accords have been reached with the U.K. And France.     Law Debenture Trust, as trustee for the notes, has been attempting to organise a meeting between the note holders and Nigeria for the last coupole of months. The appointment of Murison, chairman of Westpac Banking Corp's Mase Westpac Ltd unit in London, was made in an effort to better coordinate these efforts.     The Law Debenture official said Murison will begin talks with Nigeria as soon as they return to London. And although it is hoped that a meeting of all note holders could be held by end-May, he said this may not be possible since four weeks notice of the meeting is required by law.     The discussions with the note holders are being held in conjunction with proposals to rescheduling Nigeria's debt to commercial banks and official credit agencies.     When talks began last April on rescheduling part of the country's approximate 19 billion dlrs of foreign debt, the commercial banks insisted that it be contingent on Nigeria obtaining a rescheduling of its official debts as well. The Nigerians then extended this to include all uninsured trade debt.     The commercial bank package has yet to be signed due in part to the reluctance of Japanese banks, which have a relatively small exposure, to participate.  REUTER &#3;

