 1-JUN-1987 11:03:27.17

EC EUROBOND ISSUE REMAINS UNRESOLVED - DIPLOMATS

European Community diplomats said the question of whether Eurobonds will fall under proposed EC rules requiring new securities issues in Community countries to be preceded by a prospectus has yet to be resolved.     The U.K. Securities industry has been lobbying hard against an EC Commission proposal, aimed at protecting investors, that would require publication and approval of a prospectus before all public offers of securities.     The proposed directive currently includes Eurobonds, although it makes an exception to the prospectus rules for issues directed exclusively at professional investors.     Diplomats said that with Britain tending towards backing West Germany and Luxembourg in their opposition to the inclusion of Eurobonds, the question of whether they would remain within the scope of the directive or not was wide open.     "Everything is in the melting pot," said one diplomat who declined to be named.     The diplomats said Belgium has now given up attempts to have the directive adopted by EC ministers before it hands over the presidency of the 12-nation Community to Denmark on July 1. It was not immediately clear what priority the Danes would attach to getting the proposals through during their six month tenure.     Meanwhile, discussions on the directive at working group level have halted, diplomats said.     Officials of the EC Commission said it recognised that its proposals created a conflict between the need for greater protection of investors, on the one hand, and for banks and other institutions to place Eurobonds quickly, on the other.     "It's a problem and we are still in the grips of internal debate as to the right line to take," said one Commission official. Eurobonds were not included in the original draft directive, first put forward in 1981, but were brought into its scope later at the request of a number of EC member states.     Diplomats said countries that oppose the inclusion of Eurobonds in the proposals are worried that the prospectus requirements would prevent the thriving Eurobond market from functioning as well as it does now.     "With timing so essential to the market for placing and distribution, there's just not time to deal with these bureaucratic hurdles," said one.     He and others said the overriding concern was that the requirements could drive the Eurobond market out of traditional EC centres like London and Luxembourg to Switzerland, the U.S. Or Japan.     Diplomats said the Eurobond question is not the only issue that needs to be resolved before the directive can be passed.     They said West Germany's main objection to the directive in its present form is that it considers as too stringent proposed rules laying down how much information companies issuing non-listed securities should disclose in their prospectuses.     The proposed rules create problems for West Germany because its new second tier securities market has less demanding requirements that would have to be tightened.  REUTER &#3;

