29-JUN-1987 06:26:47.78

HIGHER REVENUES DEAL BLOW TO JAPAN TAX REFORM PLAN

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's diminishing hopes of overhauling the tax system have been dealt a serious blow by reports of sharply higher than expected tax revenues in 1986/87, government officials said.     Nakasone has argued that the tax system must be reformed to provide the revenue for more than 1,000 billion yen of tax cuts promised in the government's emergency economic package last month. But his argument has been undercut by reports that the 1986/87 tax take was as much as 2,500 billion yen more than expected.     That means the government should have more than enough money in the fiscal year ending next March to pay for the planned tax cuts without having recourse to the unpopular tax measures proposed by Nakasone, one official said.     The Prime Minister has proposed an indirect tax and the abolition of tax breaks on small savings as ways of raising revenue to offset the tax cuts.     But stiff opposition has forced him to shelve the idea of an indirect tax, at least for the time being. He still hopes to gain parliamentary approval next month to abolish tax breaks on small savings.     The higher than expected revenues in 1986/87 partly stemmed from increased receipts from land and securities taxes, as prices of both shares and land soared, one official said.     But corporate tax revenues have also been more buoyant than expected, perhaps indicating the recession of the last year induced by the strong yen was not as bad as thought, he said.     The final figures for 1986/87 revenues are due to be released by the Finance Ministry on July 1.     The higher revenues last fiscal year have also undercut attempts by the Finance Ministry's budget bureau to reduce investment spending by government departments in the 1988/89 budget, several officials said.     A budget bureau official said the bureau still wanted to stick with its so-called "minus-ceiling" policy, which calls for government departments to reduce investment spending by five pct a year.     But he acknowledged this would be difficult, given the sharp increase in revenues last fiscal year and heavy domestic and U.S. Pressure on the ministry to stimulate the economy.  REUTER &#3;

