 7-APR-1987 11:00:07.87

EQUITIES DRIFT LOWER ON EASIER WALL STREET OPENING

Equities drifted lower after the easier opening on Wall Street, but the London market was depressed from the outset on lack of interest and a feeling that yesterday's gains were overdone, dealers said.     Much of today's business was inter-professional, but dealers noted that despite today's falls and low volume the market still had a firm, although cautious, undertone. At 1430 GMT the FTSE 100 index was down 8.1 points at 1,981.5 compared with an opening 1,987.4.     Concern over the possibility of a trade war with Japan, although less pronounced, provided further caution.     Yesterday, the Japanese finance ministry made moves to try and dispel fears of a trade war by saying it will help to expand the Tokyo Stock Exchange membership to facilitate foreign membership.     However, British corporate affairs minister Michael Howard has told Japan to resolve the row over Cable and Wireless' shareholding in a new Japanese telecommunications company or face an abrupt deterioration in trade relations.     Cable and Wireless, which has been at the centre of the trade row, was up 2p at 372.     The latest media opinion polls helped to underpin prices as they strengthened the belief that the ruling Tory party will win the next U.K. General election. Although there is still uncertainty over the timing of the election, most dealers polled by Reuters this afternoon thought that June would be the most likely time.     A poll conducted for the breakfast television programme TV-AM showed the Conservatives 13 points ahead of the Opposition Labour Party, while a poll in the Times newspaper, which measured party support in 73 key marginal seats, gave the Tories a lead of six points over the labour opposition.     Market leader ICI stood unchanged at 1,335 but IC Gas slipped 14p to 752 on profit-taking after yesterday's stong gain while Jaguar rose 15p to 590 mainly on U.S demand ahead of a motor show in New York.     Pharmaceuticals had Wellcome down 23p to 397 on further profit-taking in the wake of adverse press comment on the side effects of its "Retrovir" aids drug. London International Group gained 13p to 301 as operators switched out of Wellcome.     Extel lost a net 26p to 464 in the wake of yesterday's news that Robert Maxwell's British Printing and Communications Corp would not be making a bid for the company.     In a generally easier oil sector, BP fell 18p to 912 after yesterday's statement by Standard Oil that it considered BP's 70 dlrs per share tender offer for the 45 pct of the company it does not already own as "inadequate."     In banks, Standard Chartered lost 4p to 820 after its recent gains on the back of bid rumours, but dealers noted press speculation that Australian businessman Robert Holmes A'Court had increased his stake in the company yesterday.     Many operators expect Lloyds bank to renew its offer for Standard once its one year bid limit ends in July, although some dealers thought this unlikely. Lloyds gained 1p to 488.     Elsewhere, industrial group Norcros gained 9p to 448 on speculation of a bid for the company, while food retailer Tesco added 2p to 475 after extending its 151 mln stg contested bid for Hillards Plc until May 1. Hillards was a penny up at 314.     Government bonds stood generally lower in late trading with prices drifting down on a lack of interest. Gilts gained around 5/16 point at the outset on the back of the opinion polls.     Equities tended to move up in later quiet trading as Wall Street rallied from its early lows. At 1556 GMT the FTSE 100 was down just 4.7 points at 1,984.9 after a low of 1,977.2 at 1354 GMT.     Dealers said most in the market appear to expect share prices to move higher tomorrow, but volume will remain relatively light ahead of an announcement of the election date.     They said given the thin trading conditions the market's movements will be volatile in the coming few sessions.  REUTER &#3;

