 7-APR-1987 08:03:28.56

U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - NARROW RANGES

After a few days of volatility, the credit markets show signs of settling back into the frustratingly narrow ranges that prevailed for much of the first quarter, economists said.     Friday's weak employment data for March braked an ascent in bond yields before the 30-year yield could reach the psychologically important eight pct level.     But, with question marks hanging over the strength of the economy and, more critically, the value of the dollar, economists said the market remains fragile and will not quickly recoup the ground lost in the past two weeks.     The 30-year bond yield closed Monday at 7.84 pct, down from 7.86 pct on Friday and a 12-month high last week of 7.93 pct, but trading was lackluster.     "People are sitting on the fence, they don't really know what to do," said Stephen Slifer of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "Our retail accounts are not committing themselves either way."     No economic indicators are due today, but the markets will hear Congressional testimony from Fed chairman Paul Volcker at 1000 EDT (1400 GMT) and will be alert for the possibility of another outright purchase of securities by the Fed.     The Fed needs to buy a large volume of securities at this time of year to offset the reserve drain caused by a build-up of Treasury funds at the Fed around the April 15 tax date.     The Fed confounded most economists' predictions of a bill "pass" last week by buying instead a record 2.2 billion dlrs of notes and bonds, and Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc said the Fed could make it two in a row by offering to buy coupon securities today or Wednesday.     The Fed will not buy bills since they are already in relatively short supply after heavy Treasury paydowns in recent weeks, she argued.     "They haven't paid down so many bills before in a quarter," Ramirez said, noting that the Treasury has been able to reduce the size of its regular bill auctions because of strong tax revenues following the reform of the tax code at the beginning of the year.     Because it would be unprecedented for the Fed to conduct back-to-back coupon "passes", most economists still expect the Fed to buy bills this week instead of bonds and notes.     After trading late yesterday at 6-1/8 pct, Fed funds were indicated by brokers to open at 6-1/8, 6-1/4 pct.  Reuter &#3;

