26-FEB-1987 21:26:39.44

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN EYEING FOREIGN STOCKS

Japanese life insurers, trust banks and corporations, largely responsible for vitalising the U.S. Bond market in recent years, are now eyeing stockmarkets in the U.S., Britain, France and Hong Kong, fund managers said.     After concentrating on U.S. Treasury bonds for years, Japanese institutions now see a risk in relying too much on similar types of investments, they said.     Japan's net buying in overseas stockmarkets this year may double or triple to 15-20 billion dlrs from seven billion in 1986, Shigeki Matsumoto of Nikko Securities Co Ltd, said.     Matsumoto, who manages Nikko's investment research and strategy, said there is evidence Japanese investors began poking around in foreign stockmarkets around July last year, but few made firm commitments until December when net purchases suddenly grew to 1.5 billion dlrs from around 500 mln in each of the previous five months.     Net buying in 1985 totalled only 995 mln dlrs, he added.     This sudden penchent for overseas stocks is likely to draw the widest smiles from Wall Street because about 70 to 80 pct of funds will be invested in the U.S. Markets, Matsumoto said.     "The trend has been to head toward the U.S. Market, first because of its size and next because it has been successful over the last couple of years," said Eugene Atkinson, managing director of Goldman Sachs International Corp.     Wall Street's massive turnover offers good liquidity, enabling institutions to easily move large volumes of money in and out of shares with the minimum of risk, he added.     However, few see holdings in U.S. Treasuries dwindling. They will remain a Japanese mainstay, fund managers said.     Institutions, particularly life insurance companies which concentrate on income rather than capital gains to cover payouts to policy holders, are unlikely to sell their U.S. Treasuries, but will put in less money, said Shinichi Kobuse, manager of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's international fixed income activities.     There has been some selling of U.S. Bonds by short-term investors, but the selling is unlikely to amount to a significant chunk of Japanese bond holdings because the liquidity of the U.S. Bond market remains attractive, he added.     Kobuse said investment managers are bullish on the U.S. Equity markets despite predictions by economists the U.S. Economy will remain sluggish over the next couple of months.     Interest in Wall Street has been spurred by recent reports of significant growth in earnings by major U.S. Corporations, he added.     Yutaka Hashimoto general manager of Nippon Life Insurance Co told an economic conference that insurance companies, which are responsible for 26 pct of Japanese funds in foreign securities, hold a lopsided proportion of U.S. Treasuries and intend to diversify into other instruments and currencies.     Insurance companies have put the dominant portion of their funds into the U.S., But will now invest in Britain, West Germany, France and other countries, Hashimoto said.     Lower interest rates worldwide make the returns on stocks relatively high in comparison with bonds and in light of the strength in the yen, the growth in stock values is expected to offset currency risks, he added.     One trust bank official said his bank aims for a 10 pct annual return on overseas investments but the recent decline in U.S. 30-year bond yields has caused a rethink in pension fund investment stategies.     The bank is looking more at U.S. Equities and European bonds, he said.     Japanese investments in British equities have already turned active and the pace is likely to increase, said Andrew Sheaf, general manager of international equity activities at County Securities Japan.     "Last week was the busiest week we had," he said.     Investments are being spurred by the growth in profits of British companies and the recent deregulation of government controlled firms, fund managers said.     Deregulation in France is also attracting Japanese interest, but stock investments there will be inhibited by worries about the French franc, they said.     Investments in Hong Kong will be mostly short-term and speculative due to uncertainty about the colony's long-term political stability, they added.     Japanese investors are cautious about West Germany, particularly as German firms, like their Japanese counterparts, are concerned about the recent dollar fall.     Australia also poses some risks due to currency values, they added.  REUTER &#3;

