20-OCT-1987 06:28:03.88

TAKESHITA FACES TOUGH ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT JOB

Former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita, chosen on Monday to be Japan's next prime minister, will face a tough test in managing Japan's economy from the very start of his two-year term, economists and businessmen said.     Takeshita told a news conference on Tuesday that he would do his best to continue the domestic reforms and external policies of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.     However, leading Japanese businessmen called on Takeshita to outdo Nakasone by showing stronger leadership.     "Takeshita should not merely follow the Nakasone policies but should cope with mounting economic issues with a new vision and policies," Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said in a statement.     Economists generally agreed that there will be no major changes in Japan's economic policies under a new leader.     However, expectations are high among major industries for new initiatives by Takeshita for immediate and effective measures to solve economic problems such as trade friction with the U.S., Administrative and tax reforms, and soaring land prices.     Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren), urged Takeshita to succeed in unifying the ruling Liberal Democratic Party as soon as possible to tackle difficult tasks.     Regarding foreign economic polices, Yoshitoki Chino, chairman of the Japan Securities Dealers Association, said Takeshita should come up with economic measures well before economic issues develop into problems.     Behind those calls on Takeshita for prompt action are doubts about his capability in handling international issues due to his lack of experience in diplomacy, economists said.      Economists said foreign countries should be patient with Takeshita, who is widely known as an ultra-cautious politician.     Takeshita has repeatedly said, "There should be consensus before taking action."     Takeshita has so far failed to unveil specific measures to reduce Japan's huge trade surplus, economists said.     He has said Japan will continue to stimulate the economy and to open the market wider to foreign products.  REUTER &#3;

