19-MAR-1987 08:08:32.15

H.K. BANKING SECTOR STABLE, OFFICIAL SAYS

The banking sector has regained its stability after a protracted period of difficulty, banking commissioner Robert Fell said.     "The banking climate has dramatically changed from a year ago," he said at a news conference to present his annual report on the banking sector for 1986.     "We've got confidence back. We've got profitability back." he said.     A three-year shake out in the local banking sector forced the government to take over three banks and arrange for the acquisition of four others by the private sector.     Fell said that in many cases the bank problems stemmed from management fraud which he linked partly to dramatic swings in the stock and property markets in the early 1980s.     "We've got it out of the system now," he said. "Fraud is no longer a systemic problem."     But he acknowledged there may still be problems.     "Deliberate fraud is difficult to detect especially where collusion and senior management are involved," he said. "Prudential supervision cannot give complete protection. The (new banking) ordinance is designed to give a "measure" of protection."     Fell said a number of banks want to set up operations in Hong Kong, adding the government approved three banking licences this week. He did not give details.     At the end of 1986, there were 151 licenced banks, 25 of which were locally incorporated, compared with 143 a year ago. Another 134 foreign banks had representative offices compared with 131 a year ago.     There were 34 licensed deposit-taking companies (DTCs) and 254 registered DTCs at the end of 1986, compared with 35 and 278 respectively a year ago, he said.     Foreign banks seeking banking licences in Hong Kong must have assets of 14 billion U.S. Dlrs. But Financial Secretary Piers Jacobs said yesterday the asset criteria are flexible.     A high asset threshold has worked in the favour of banks incorporated in countries with relatively large economies, he noted.     "No licences in the last few years have been granted to banks from any of the smaller countries in the Asia-Pacific region," he said.  REUTER &#3;

