 3-APR-1987 10:50:23.48

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EFTA FEARS EC MARKET PLANS

The European Community wants to eliminate all obstacles to free movement of goods, services and people by 1992, a laudable goal that has sent shivers down the spines of its closest trading neighbours.     Europe's outsiders -- the six members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other small states -- fear the growing power of the 12 EC member countries, a market of 320 mln people, one and a half times as big as the whole U.S.     And as the Community celebrates its 30th anniversary, in non-EC countries from Ankara to Oslo, an attitude is emerging which says, "If you can't beat them, join them."     In June 1985, the Community adopted a plan to create an "internal market" without restrictions, which included new goals on everything from tourism to the rules of bank accounting.     The plan is so extensive that even the EFTA countries -- Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland -- with decades of close trade ties, find it hard to adopt a joint position.     Last month Turkey formally requested EC membership, receiving a polite reply from Brussels that the time was not ripe.     In Austria, where its 1955 charter of neutrality forbids joining political alliances, the government is looking for ways to become a "de facto" EC member.     And in Norway, where membership was rejected in a 1972 referendum, government officials are wondering whether the political climate has changed.     But nowhere has the debate been more existential than in Switzerland, which has resisted all alliances for 700 years.     The Swiss are a microcosm of Europe, living geographically in the very heart of Europe and speaking the languages of the three big economies -- Germany, France and Italy.     Swiss neutrality, which has kept the country out of the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, would seem to preclude membership in the Community, given the EC's loose link with the Western defence alliance NATO.     But an opinion poll late last year, held in the French-speaking part of the country, showed a majority favoured joining the Community.     Since then, government officials have stressed that, while membership was impossible, Switzerland should do everything possible not to be locked out when the trade barriers inside the EC come down.     State secretary for foreign trade Franz Blankart, said it is inconceivable the whole Swiss nation -- including the more conservative German-speaking majority -- would vote for membership.     But Switzerland must be more than just a "satellite," he said, now that the enlarged Community is extending itself into areas omitted by the founding Treaty of Rome.     These areas, including pharmaceutical research and technological development, are the key to the economic future of Switzerland and the Community alike, he adds.     "We cannot permit ourselves the luxury of passively following the Community's new dynamic of integration," he says.     The Swiss economy ministry has drawn up a detailed analysis of the EC White Paper on the internal market, outlining the Swiss response to each point. While some refer to a collective EFTA stance, officials admit that on many issues Switzerland may have act alone.     The new EC plans on transport, for example, would have a severe impact on Switzerland and Austria, whose roads carry most of the traffic between Italy and its EC partners.     But rules such as the volume of petrol buses are allowed to carry across a border have much less importance to Sweden or Finland.     Switzerland wants to work out ways to help people crossing its borders with West Germany, France and Italy. But it is afraid the liberal border controls Denmark, an EC member, has with the non-EC Nordic countries might pose a threat to security.    And pin the fields of banking and insurance -- the very lifeblood of Switzerland's service sector -- Swiss interests could prove directly opposite to its EFTA partners with their pppppppnarrow and tightly protected financial markets.     The biggest danger ahead, EFTA members have said, would be that their divided interests might leave the EC free to set whatever guidelines and standards it wanted and force them on other European states that wanted to trade.  REUTER &#3;

