19-OCT-1987 20:09:36.23

BRITAIN TAKES STRONG LINE ON EC FARM BUDGET PLAN

British foreign secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe told his EC colleagues on Monday that Britain wants agreement by December on a detailed plan to curb EC farm spending if it is to sanction an increase in EC budgetary resources.     British diplomatic sources quoted Howe as saying that an accord containing detailed figures and involving immediate penalties for farmers in the case of overproduction must be reached in advance of an EC heads of government summit meeting in December.     "We require numbers as well as words in all the commodity regimes," Howe was quoted as saying.     The EC Commission proposed last month a plan for "budgetary stabilisers" under which there would be reductions in guaranteed prices, restrictions of sales into intervention or increases in coresponsibility levies if output of individual commodities exceeded certain levels.     Britain has so far given the clearest backing to the idea, although several other EC states back it in outline.     Diplomats say Britain can exercise some leverage on the issue because the EC is in a severe budgetary crisis from which it can only emerge if all 12 member states agree to revise the system by which it is financed.     The sources quoted Howe as saying: "An interim or partial solution covering some elements of the Commission package would be unacceptable to the United Kingdom."     They said he insisted that any penalties imposed on farmers for exceeding production limits must take effect in the same marketing year as the overproduction, rather than resulting in a price adjustment the following year.     Howe also said there should be no question of a special fund which could top up EC farm coffers in the event of an unexpected development such as a major fall in the value of the dollar.     The Commission has suggested such a fund to deal with emergency situations.     French EC affairs minister Bernard Bosson told journalists that his country could not accept the idea that there should be no emergency reserve.     "The British position has become tougher," he said.     Howe was speaking at a meeting of EC foreign ministers, which discussed the future of EC finances, and which took place simultaneously with a farm ministers' meeting to consider the Commission's farm spending proposals.     Before his meeting got under way, British agriculture minister John MacGregor said he backed the Commission proposal to set the 1988 cereals production ceiling at 155 mln tonnes.  Reuter &#3;

