 1-JUN-1987 16:06:03.22

ALLEGIS <AEG> FILING MAY BE LATER THIS WEEK

Allegis Corp may file its plan of recapitalization with the Securities and Exchange Commission later this week, a company spokesman said.     The spokesman also said the company has no comment on Coniston Partners plan to carry out its solicitation of consents from shareholders to remove Allegis directors.     Coniston proposes replacing the board of directors with its own candidates and then selling off one or more units of Allegis. Allegis, apparently in response to takeover activity, announced a sweeping recapitalization plan, which will give shareholders 60 dlrs per share.     Allegis shares came under pressure from institutional selling today. The stock slipped 1-3/8 to 85-1/8 on volume of more than 1.6 mln shares. Traders said there was also arbitrage-related buying.     PaineWebber Group analyst Edward Starkman said institutions and other long-term holders may want to cash in their gains instead of waiting for the company's special dividend, which would be taxed at a higher rate. The recapitalization is subject to shareholder and other approvals.     Starkman said he believes Coniston may still have a chance to win the battle for control of Allegis' board room, despite the recapitalization plan.     Coniston Partners would not comment on the recapitalization plan.     "We said a week ago, and we say it again today that the way to maximize value for shareholders is to see these companies traded as independent companies," said Keith Gollust, one of the partners.     Allegis owns United Air Lines, Hertz rental cars, and Westin and Hilton International hotels.     Allegis' recapitalization plan does not entail the sale of any of those businesses, which its management claims are necessary to its travel services strategy. The recapitalization plan would add three billion dlrs in debt to its balance sheet.     Some Wall Street analysts believe such a move could be risky since the airline, as well as other travel businesses, are dependant on the strength of the economy.     "They've become sort of a super cyclical company," Starkman said. The hotels and car rental business represents "no diversification. It just makes it worse."     Traders and analysts who believe Coniston's effort may have a chance believe that Allegis management is not giving shareholders full value. After receiving the dividend, shareholders will still hold their stock. Arbitragers and analysts valued the recapitalization in the upper 80s to 100 dlrs per share.     Breakup values for the company estimated on Wall Street exceed 110 dlrs per share.   Reuter &#3;

