 1-JUN-1987 13:44:01.43

GENENTECH <GENE> SETBACK VIEWED AS TEMPORARY

Genentech Inc is suffering only a temporary setback following a U.S. agency decision to withhold a recommendation on its genetically-produced drug which is used to treat heart attacks in progress, industry sources and analysts said.     "When TPA (the drug) first came on the scene, the projected time scale for approval was 1990," said Sam Milstein, a scientist and industry consultant.     "So even with the new delay that has arisen, in all likelihood the drug will be approved prior to initial projections," he added.     Last Friday, an advisory committee at the Food and Drug Administration, FDA, withheld a recommendation on Genentech's tissue plasminogen activator, a drug called Activase.     Athough it supported Genentech's claim that the drug dissolves blood clots, the FDA said it wanted data that showed the treatment benefits heart-attack victims.     "We will be talking to the FDA as soon as possible to ask specifically what they are looking for," a Genentech spokeswoman said. She said the company had data that showed improvement in the heart muscle after the drug was administered but had not included it in the FDA filing.       Industry analysts also said the 12 point drop in the company's stock to 37-1/4 was largely expected in light of the speculative nature of the biotechnology companies whose fortunes often depend on the success of an important drug.     "In larger pharmaceutical companies each product does not have as much overall significance. But this is very important to Genentech," said Robert Riley, a senior consultant at Arthur D. Little Inc.     Some estimated that Genentech could see as much as 1.5 billion dlrs from the drug. But with each delay, others can enter the market and catch up to Genentech's lead.      Industry sources pointed out that KabiVitrum, in an alliance with Hoechst AG <HFAG.F>, won a recommendation for its streptokinase drug on the same day Genentech's application was delayed. Streptokinase, an enzyme-based drug, is also used to treat heart attack victims.     In addition, Milstein said that Beecham Group Plc <BHAM.L> has a drug called Eminase which is "the most likely competitor to TPA," and from a clinical standpoint, nearly identical. Beecham's drug has been approved for use in Germany and is awaiting approval in the U.K., he added.      Streptokinase was difficult to administer to heart attack victims because it would dissolve before it reached the heart. Another method, which involved pumping the drug directly into the heart through a tube, proved difficult when a heart attack was in progress. TPA was seen as a savior since it was easier to administer and worked quickly.     But new developments have made streptokinase more effective and easier to administer, becoming a potential threat to Genentech's grasp on the TPA market. And if that wasn't enough, about 30 other biotech companies are quickly developing TPA in Genentech's path.       "Genentech's advantage is being first in the market," said industry consultant Scott King, formerly an analyst with Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "They'll be the first approved but then they'll face competition after one or two years."     The company may also face patent pressures for its drug. It is currently about to go to court with Beecham Group in the U.K. in a patent dispute. And while its patent is pending in the U.S., many analysts expect the company to face some suits as soon as the patent is issued, a potentially more harmful situation than any temporary setback in the FDA.  Reuter &#3;

