 3-APR-1987 13:43:34.67

BRITAIN'S ECGD DISCUSSING NEW COVER FOR NIGERIA

Britain's Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) is holding talks with Nigeria aimed at resuming insurance cover for British exporters to Nigeria, the head of ECGD's international debt division, Gerry Breach, said.     The ECGD suspended cover on Nigeria in 1984 after the country fell into arrears on payments of insured and uninsured debts.     Following last week's bilateral accord between Britain and Nigeria to reschedule the country's insured trade debts, bankers had hoped that talks would commence on a resumption of cover.     Breach made his comments in an address to a private meeting of businessmen, a copy of which was made available to the press.     Breach noted that for the ECGD to consider "a gradual introduction of a package of new support" certain criteria would have to be met.     This would involve the Nigerian economic structural adjustment program being put into effect and being endorsed by the International Monetary Fund, the program remaining on course and continuing to be endorsed by the IMF and a satisfactory level of acceptance by the Nigerian government of the ECGD insured short-term trade arrears.     Breach said that these criteria are now beginning to be satisfied, adding that while the ECGD could not yet formally announce new cover, it was holding discussions with Nigeria on priorities for new credits.     He said an announcement would be made "as soon as possible" on an agreement and the ECGD would create a package for Nigeria that would include the department's normal range of export trade support facilities.     British exports to Nigeria exceeded 550 mln stg in 1986.     Breach noted that since cover was removed, the ECGD has maintained a limited amount of short-term trade cover for Nigeria, which was backed by letters of credit from the Nigerian Central Bank.     While the ECGD would initially continue to use this structure under a new package, it would also hope to expand the volume of coverage in the short-term area and relax the terms it is prepared to underwrite towards the commonly accepted maximum of 180 days.  REUTER &#3;

