20-MAR-1987 15:21:53.15

BANKS HAD EXCESS POSITIONS WITH VW - NEWSLETTER

A financial newsletter which reported last November that car maker Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> lost large sums in currency transactions alleged that unnamed banks had circumvented banking regulations with help from VW's foreign exchange department.     VW had no immediate comment and there was nothing in the report by the newsletter, the Platow Brief, to link its new allegations with a suspected currency swindle at VW which is now being investigated by a prosecutor.     VW said this month that it had had to make provision for possible losses up to 480 mln marks in the possible currency fraud.     A spokesman for the Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin said the office was aware that the newsletter had made the new allegations and would follow this with interest.     Platow Brief said around 16 mainly foreign banks based in West Germany had "parked" excess open positions in currency trading with VW's foreign exchange department.     Under West German banking law, banks may not end a trading day with open positions totalling more than 30 pct of their capital. During the day banks buy and sell currencies, usually aiming to match up all deals by the end and balance their books.     Some traders who take a view on how currencies will move may prefer to leave certain positions open, a speculative situation that the German regulations are designed to limit.     According to Platow Brief, some traders apparently were getting round the regulation by getting VW to buy or sell currencies and hold them temporarily so that their books were squared. Up to 100 mln dlrs was sometimes involved.     Non-bank corporations are not covered by the restrictions, imposed after a bank crash in 1974 to protect bank depositors.     Breaches of the Banking Law in this way can be punished by a fine for the dealers involved, and in extreme cases by removal of the managers, if their active involvement is proved.     But the Federal Banking Supervisory Office said it first had to be established how far, if at all, regulations were breached.     The suspected VW currency swindle meanwhile involved operations to protect the company against fluctuations in the value of the dollar, VW spoksmen have said.     Some operations to hedge against changes in currency values were not completed, meaning VW stood to lose money.     A senior executive has been fired and several other people suspended, while a prosecutor is looking into the matter.  REUTER &#3;

