11-MAR-1987 14:56:20.87

ADMINISTRATION SAID LAX ON ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT

A group of state officials and a key U.S. senator said a corporate merger wave was harming the economy and blamed the Reagan administration for laxness in enforcing the federal antitrust laws.     Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, the Ohio Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee's Antitrust Subcommittee, also cautioned the Department of Justice (DOJ) to comply with his request for a listing of each case since 1980 in which department officials had rejected a staff recommendation to prosecute a suspected antitrust violation.     Metzenbaum had asked for the data by Monday, but the DOJ failed to meet the deadline and later hinted it might refuse to comply.     Acting Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust Charles Rule defended the administration's record on antitrust enforcement and told the panel at today's hearing that the department was in the process of preparing a response to Metzenbaum's request.     "We have nothing to hide, but we have to be concerned about our institutional interests," Rule said. He provided no explanation of what those interests were.     Metzenbaum said he had scheduled the hearings and requested the data out of concern "that this administration has abandoned the nation's historical commitment to effective antitrust enforcement."     "The green light is on," he said. "Merger mania is rampant in this country...and it is not serving us well."     Rule countered that the low inflation and interest rates and the continuing economic expansion meant the administration's policies were working well.     He said simply looking at the number of challenges filed against pending mergers was misleading because there was no reason to believe that a fixed proportion of all mergers were anticompetitive.     "If you look at the individual cases rather than the statistics, you will see that we are appropriately enforcing the antitrust laws," Rule said.     Metzenbaum's view, however, was bolstered by the National Association of Attorneys General, a group of top state law enforcement officials.     "The federal assault on antitrust has been comprehensive," Robert Abrams, attorney general of New York and chairman of the group's antitrust committee, told the panel.     "The reduction in enforcement has been exacerbated by federal attempts to prevent both state attorneys general and private parties from enforcing the law in accordance with its clear meaning and Supreme Court interpretations," Abrams said.     The group has drafted its own merger guidelines to bring uniformity to the attorney generals' efforts to enforce the laws at the state level.  Reuter &#3;

