 9-APR-1987 06:30:56.92

G-7 COMMITMENT TESTS JAPAN'S WILL TO BOOST ECONOMY

The statement issued today by the Group of Seven (G-7) industrialised nations has put Japan under greater international pressure to stimulate its economy or face a further rise in the yen, private economists and analysts said.     They said the communique reflected increased foreign frustration with Japan's burgeoning trade surplus and its tight-fisted fiscal policies in the past.     Unless Japan implements economic measures included in the statement, foreign protectionist sentiment would grow and the yen would come under renewed upward pressure, they said.     The G-7 -- grouping the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- said in the statement they welcomed proposals announced by Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) for extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate its economy and that Japan reaffirmed its intention to further open its domestic markets.     "It's rather unusual that only Japan was mentioned in the communique and promised something," said Takeshi Saito, general manager of Fuji Bank Ltd's research division. This showed how strongly other nations want Japan to take concrete and effective steps to redress its trade surplus, he said.     The statement referred to some details of Japan's proposed economic measures, such as early implementation of a large supplementary budget exceeding those of previous years and unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures.     It did not mention any figure for the projected supplementary budget but LDP officials have said it will amount to more than 5,000 billion yen for fiscal 1987, which compares with 2,000 billion provided for the previous year.     "It signalled a clear shift away from the conservative fiscal policies of the past," said Kazuaki Harada, senior managing director of Sanwa Research Institute.     For the last five years the government has stuck to a tight-fisted fiscal policy in its attempt to stop issuing deficit financing bonds by 1990.     But mounting foreign pressure for Japan to boost its economy, hurt by the yen's extended rise, hurried the government to hammer out a draft economic package and bring it to the latest G-7 meeting.     Harada said Japan should not view expansion of its economy as the result of pressure but as an opportunity to lead world economic growth.     "The Japanese economy has the potential to take a leadership role and we should recognize it," Harada said.     If Japan fails to meet such international expectations it will invite some retaliatory moves, especially from the U.S., Which may result in a further rise of the yen, analysts said.     The G-7 communique represented a test for Japan's commitment to domestically-generated economic growth and to a more balanced world trade structure, they said.  REUTER &#3;

