24-MAR-1987 01:53:38.99

SUPERCONDUCTOR RESEARCH MAY BOOST TOKYO STOCKS

Research into materials that conduct electricity with minimal resistance could lead to further gains on Tokyo's booming stock market, brokers said.     They said the share prices of companies likely to benefit from the so-called 'superconductors' rose sharply last week after publication of articles about the research in the economic daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The companies were in the non-ferrous metal, electrical and mining sectors.     But industry analysts said development problems remain and commercial application is still some years away.     "The area clearly has significant applications but it won't be commercially viable for a few years," said Thomas Murtha, technology analyst with James Capel and Co.     Industry analysts said the use of superconductors could bring sharp cuts in electricity costs if present problems can be overcome.     Nikko Securities Co Ltd analyst Shinichi Nakayama said superconductors could have applications in computer circuitry, electricity generation and storage, and scientific research.     The superconductors are made of a blend of metals fused in a heat-firing process similar to that used in ceramics.     Nakayama said Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T> predicted in an in-house study that by 1990 the worldwide market would be worth 150 billion yen for superconductors used in computers, 50 billion for those used in electricity generators and 150 billion for those used in electricity storage.     The study said that by 1995 there would be trains capable of 500 km an hour, hovering on a magnetic field and powered mainly by superconductors. One hundred billion yen worth of superconducting material would be needed for such a train.     The Kawasaki study also said superconductors would be used in nuclear fusion physics, but not until the year 2000.     Industry analysts said superconductors have no commercial applications at present. In laboratory tests the conductor must be cooled by expensive liquid helium or hydrogen before minimum electrical resistance is achieved, though liquid nitrogen, which is much less expensive, has recently also been used successfully, they said.     Despite this, investors on Tokyo's stock market have boosted shares of firms related to superconducting materials.     From the close of trading on March 17 until yesterday's close, Mitsubishi Mining and Cement Co Ltd's <MIMI.T> share price rose 140 yen to 485 yen.     In the same period Mitsubishi Metal Corp <MITM.T>, rose 95 to 745 yen, Sumitomo Metal Mining Co Ltd <TOMM.T> rose 200 to 1440 yen, and Kawasaki Steel rose 15 to 260.     Furukawa Electric Co Ltd shares <URUT.T> jumped 104 yen to 689 yen, and Fuji Electric Co Ltd <FUJE.T> rose 141 to 619.     Brokers said shares of suppliers of scientific instruments needed to conduct the superconductor research also rose.     Industry analysts said the most favoured superconductor, made from a blend of yttrium, barium and copper, is currently undergoing laboratory tests under a scheme coordinated by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI).  REUTER &#3;

