18-JUN-1987 15:41:39.76

UK "STAR WARS" CONTRACTS SEEN AS TOO SMALL

British companies are being largely frozen out of President Reagan's "Star Wars" project despite earlier hopes of lucrative contracts from the research bonanza, according to a report by Members of Parliament (MPs).     Funding for the project, formally known as the Strategic Defence Initiative (SDI), has so far amounted to some 7.5 billion dlrs, parliament's Defence Committee said.     But British contractors have won only 34 mln dlrs of this -- 20 mln dlrs on a government-to-government basis, with the rest secured directly by U.K. Firms and institutions.     In December 1985, Britain and the United States signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) relating to cooperative research for the Strategic Defence Initiative.     At the time, hopes were expressed that U.K. Industrial participation would lead to significant spin-off of technology, both of other defence areas and to the civil sector.     But the all-party committee report said "the debate about the merits of U.K. Participation in SDI has now to be conducted within a rather different context than was the case when the MoU was negotiated.... It has become evident that SDI participation may not be the great bonanza that some thought."     British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has been one of President Reagan's few staunch supporters on his plan to development an anti-ballistic missile defence screen.     But government sources said she has become angry about bureaucratic barriers to British companies trying to break into the lucrative American defence market generally -- a view voiced again today by her defence minister, George Younger.     He told a gathering here of British and American businessmen, "We in Europe greatly welcome the emphasis which you in the U.S. Have placed on cooperation and collaboration in the defence equipment sphere."     He added, "But I do worry that the failure of important and influential individuals in Congress and elsewhere to realise the true nature of the two-way street in terms of ideas, technology and equipment will lead to the erection of artificial barriers."     "I am afraid that the danger signals are only too visible in the form of both of the legislative proposals which seem to arise with ever increasing frequency on (Capitol) Hill, and of new regulations from the U.S. Administration," Younger said.     "The defence balance of trade with the U.K. and other allies is still markedly in favour of the U.S."     Thatcher will visit Washington next month for talks with President Reagan. U.K. Government officials said she would probably raise the subject of defence trade when they meet.     The report by Parliament's Defence Committee said that the British position towards SDI was based on four points agreed between Thatcher and Reagan in December 1984, they being that:     - The aim was not superiority, but to maintain balance     - SDI-related deploymewnt would be a matter for negotiation     - The overall aim is to enhance, not undercut, deterence     - East-West negotiation should aim to achieve security with reduced levels of offensive systems on both sides.     The committee in its report said, "we very much support the government's view that SDI research should proceed only within the framework of the Camp David "four points" and in particular that it should be in entire conformity with the provisions of the ABM (Anti-Ballistic Missile) Treaty."     "We note that all present and envisaged SDI work undertaken by UK contractors falls in the "narrow" interpretation of the treaty, (and) we recommend that the government takes the appropriate steps to ensure that this continues to be the case."     That definition prohibits the U.S. And Soviet Union from developing, testing or deploying ABM systems, experts said.     That recommendation would of course change, it added, if "it has become clear that the Soviet Union has taken the lead in renouncing the constraints of the narrow interpretation."     Regarding possibilities for technology spin-offs, the committee report said that "the present predominance of "paper studies" in SDI contracts awarded to British firms and institutions militates against any such achievement."      Reuter &#3;

