22-MAR-1987 06:42:31.92

SAUDI ARABIA'S KING FAHD VISITS BRITAIN THIS WEEK

King Fahd of Saudi Arabia begins a four-day state visit on Tuesday which will focus on redressing Britain's large trade surplus with the kingdom and reaffirming ties between the traditionally close countries.     British officials said King Fahd may ask Britain to restore diplomatic relations with Syria, broken off by London last October after evidence in the trial of Nizar Hindawi showed Syrian agents were behind a plan to bomb an Israeli airliner.     But one official said the king would be told Britain still needs "clear and sustainable evidence that the Syrians have renounced state-sponsored terrorism. So far they haven't."     Britain will stress its support for an international peace conference on the Middle East and its concern over alleged human rights abuses by Israel in the occupied West Bank and Gaza, the officials told Reuters.     The Saudi leader will hold talks with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and meet Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip during the visit, his first to Britain since he assumed power in June 1982.     King Fahd will be accompanied by his trade, defence, oil and health ministers, who will hold talks with their British counterparts.     Relations between the two countries have generally been warm. But they were strained last year by the deportation of 35 British nurses from the kingdom for illegal drinking and the publication of a letter by a retired British ambassador describing Saudi Arabians as incompetent and arrogant.     Saudi Arabia is Britain's largest export market in the Middle East.     Britain exported 1.5 billion stg worth of goods to Saudi Arabia last year while British imports from that country in the same period totalled 436 mln.     Trade officials will discuss what countertrade Britain can offer in return for Riyadh giving London its biggest-ever arms export order.     Under the five billion stg deal signed last year, Saudi Arabia has agreed to buy 132 warplanes including 72 Tornado fighters.     Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer is likely to discuss oil price stabilisation but Britain would not change its refusal to limit its North Sea oil production and exports, officials said.     Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, has asked all oil-producing countries to help stabilise oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel by curbing output and exports.     King Fahd's trip follows several visits to Saudi Arabia by British officials in recent months. Britain's Prince Charles and Princess Diana went to Saudi Arabia in November.     There were two previous state tours of Britain by Saudi monarchs. King Faisal visited in 1967 and King Khaled in 1981.  REUTER &#3;

