19-MAR-1987 11:38:39.11

SEC DETAILS CHARGES AGAINST JEFFERIES

Federal regulators said Boyd Jefferies, who resigned as head of his Los Angeles brokerage firm, took part in schemes to manipulate the price of a stock and in a stock "parking" plot with inside trader Ivan Boesky.     In a civil complaint filed in U.S. District Court in New York, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Jefferies agreed with an unidentified person to have his firm buy up a large chunk of stock being issued in a public offering.     Under the agreement, the firm, Jefferies and Co, drove the price of the stock up by one-eighth point by buying four blocks of the stock at or near the close of trading, the SEC said.     Jefferies and Co's purchases of the unidentified stock accounted for 66 pct of the total trading volume of the stock on that day and were aimed at manipulation, the SEC said.     The complaint did not identify the company whose stock was being traded, but said that the Jefferies and Co purchases took place sometime last year when another unidentified company, which owned a controlling interest in the company, sold several million shares of the stock in a secondary public offering.     The stock purchases were made on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange, the SEC said.     The person who made the alleged stock manipulation agreement with Jefferies was also not identified.     But the person was later billed by Jefferies and Co in a phony invoice marked for investment banking services for the exact amount the firm lost on the deal when it later sold the stock on the open market, the SEC said.     The payment, the amount of which was also not revealed in the complaint, was made later by another unidentified person after Jefferies sent a second invoice for a lesser amount, the SEC said. The firm recorded the payment as "other income," it said.     William McLucas, associate director of enforcement at the SEC, declined to say why the agency decided against revealing the identities of other persons and companies involved in the stock manipulation scheme.     "We just made a determination that this was the way to go at this time," McLucas told Reuters.     The complaint went into far greater detail in its charges that Jefferies agreed with Boesky to "park" stock at each other's firms. Parking, or warehousing, stock, refers to deals where stock is held by one person or firm under an arrangement where it is actually under the control of someone else.     Under the agreement between Jefferies and Boesky, Jefferies and Co would hold stock owned by Seemala Corp, one of Boesky's brokerage firms, for 31 days, after which Seemala would "buy" the stock back, the SEC said.     Seemala realized all gains and sustained all losses on the stock held by Jefferies and Co during the period, agreed to compensate Jefferies and Co for carrying the stock and to pay more than twice Jefferies and Co's usual commission, it said.     Seemala then agreed to hold stock owned by Jefferies and Co for a month under terms about the same as the deal in which Seemala agreed to park its stock at Jefferies and Co, it said.     The agreement, which violated several securities laws, allowed Seemala to create a false appearance that no longer held the stock and could meet the SEC's net capital requirements, the SEC said.     Jefferies wanted Seemala to hold some of its stock, the SEC said, so that Jefferies and Co could meet its net capital needs, the agency said.     On March 12, 1985, Seemala "sold" Jefferies 810,000 shares oc Cooper Laboratories Inc for 11.7 mln dlrs, 600,000 shares of Southland Financial Corp for 17.3 mln dlrs and 500,000 shares of G.D. Searle and Co for 27.1 mln dlrs, it said.     On March 20, Jefferies and Co "sold" Seemala 185,500 shares of American Broadcasting Co for 19.6 mln dlrs, 210,000 shares of Ideal Basic Industries Inc for 2.9 mln dlrs, 300,000 shares of ITT Corp for 9.8 mln dlrs, 105,000 shares of Phillips Petroleum Co for 4.0 mln dlrs, 70,000 shares of Pioneer Corp for 2.1 mln dlrs and 300,000 shares of Texas Oil and Gas Corp for 5.3 mln dlrs, the SEC said.     The value of Seemala's stock at the time of the transfers was 56 mln dlrs, while Jefferies and Co's stock was worth 43 mln dlrs at the time, the SEC said.     Within a month, Seemala and Jefferies and Co unwound most of the stock transfers with each others firms, the SEC said.     But a major hitch developed in the deal when the price of Searle stock, which Jefferies and Co was holding for Seemala, dipped sharply, it said.     On March 26 Seemala "bought" back its Searle stock for 23.4 mln dlrs, resulting in a 3.6 mln dlr loss for Jefferies and Co, the SEC said. Seemala then allowed Jefferies and Co to "buy" back some it the stock Seemala was holding for it at a 647,812 dlr gain and Boesky's firms later paid the Jefferies firm three mln dlrs, which it called "fees," it said.     Among the violations Jefferies committed in the schemes, were net capital, record keeping, public disclosure and margin requirements, the SEC said.     Under the settlement of the civil SEC's charges, which was announced simultaneously with the filing of the complaint, Jefferies and his firm did not have to admit or deny guilt.     But they agreed to a court order barring them from further securities law violations.     Jefferies also agreed to get out of the securities business for at least five years.  Reuter &#3;

