13-MAR-1987 16:48:30.85

SPAIN LIBERALISES SOME EXCHANGES CONTROLS

The Bank of Spain said it approved a package of measures liberalising some exchange controls and easing some restrictions on the raising of foreign funds.     It said in a statement that the circulars were the latest steps to deregulate Spain's financial sector -- a move triggered by entry into the European Community (EC) a year ago.     A Bank of Spain spokesman said in response to an enquiry from Reuters that the new measures were not yet in force and added that he could not say when they would take effect.     The statement said one measure meant that residents in Spain would now be able to borrow up to the equivalent of 1.5 billion pesetas from abroad, providing that the average length of the loans was at least one year, that the borrower was not a Spanish branch of a non-resident lending agent, and that the loan was denominated in a currency traded in Spain, in convertible pesetas or in European Currency Units (ECUS).     All foreign loans not approved under those rules will be approved automatically if the Bank of Spain does not specifically reject applications within 15 days of receiving them.     The statement said another measure frees most of the restrictions on how banks can capture foreign funds and lend them.     The existing limit on foreign obligations of three times the value of capital and reserves of a borrower bank is abolished, although the Bank of Spain will continue to monitor the banks' obligations.     Restrictions on the maximum time difference between the maturity of foreign assets and obligations are also abolished and regulations governing risk by country are loosened.     The latest measures follow recent moves to abolish the maximum interest rates banks can offer for some peseta funds and the lifting of restrictions on investments abroad by Spaniards.     The government has also allowed foreign companies to be quoted on Spanish stock exchanges and has promised further reforms of the domestic financial system.  Reuter &#3;

