24-MAR-1987 12:00:36.26

TALKING POINT/U.S. BROKERAGE FIRMS

Wall Street's biggest brokerage firms, eager for funds and foreign ties to fuel international expansion, are expected to find more partnerships among Japan's cash-rich companies, analysts said.     Yesterday, American Express Co's <AXP> board formally approved a linkup with <Nippon Life Insurance Co> for itself and its <Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc> brokerage unit. Nippon Life will receive 13 pct of Shearson for 538 mln dlrs.     Nippon Life's investment in Shearson follows last year's investment by <Sumitomo Bank Ltd> in <Goldman, Sachs and Co>. Sumitomo paid 500 mln dlrs for 12.5 pct of the firm.     "There certainly is potential for additional investment or further linkups with other Japanese financial institutions. I think the pattern has established itself here, and it's reasonable to expect further investment down the road," said Prudential-Bache Securities analyst Larry Eckenfelder.     Speculation of such partnerships spread to other brokerage stocks, resulting in rising stock prices in recent sessions.     "The brokerage industry needs capital and the evolution of the value of the yen and the dollar suggests there's going to be a great deal of investment by Japanese firms in the U.S.," said another analyst.     As globalization of the financial markets accelerates, Japanese firms are expected to turn their sights on the expertise of the U.S. brokerage industry.     Competiton to gain a foothold in the important asian market and Europe has also created a craving for more capital by U.S firms.     "Morgan (Stanley), First Boston, Salomon (Brothers), Merrill (Lynch). Those would be the firms more likely to consider hooking up with a Japanese firm, and those would be the ones the Japanese would be most interested in," Eckenfelder said.     All of those firms, he said, have been establishing themselves in Japan.     While Wall Street views the investment by Nippon favorably, there is some underlying concern that Japanese companies may learn enough from their U.S. partners to ultimately pose the same type of competitive threat they have made in electronics and automobiles.     "The difficult issue is what investment really will lead to as markets deregulate. Passive investment is an education gathering period. Obviously, there are regulatory barriers toward exercising management control," said Samuel Liss, a brokerage industry analyst with Salomon Brothers.     The Nippon purchase of a stake in Shearson must be approved by U.S. regulators and the Japan Finance Ministry. There will also be a public offering for 18 pct of Shearson.     Nippon and Shearson have already said they would form a joint venture company in London to work on investment advisory, asset management, and consulting on financing.     Analysts believe Nippon has willingly paid a premium for its stake, but it will also receive warrants for one mln American Express shares and the 13 mln shares in Shearson will be cumulative preferred, convertible to common after U.S. regulatory approval is granted.     American Express has also guaranteed it will retain a minimum of 40 pct of Shearson until 1990.     American Express and Nippon are also expected to work closely. For instance, analysts expect it to market the American Express card more actively in Japan with the help of Nippon.     "The key to the deal is not just raising capital for Shearson, but forming a strategic alliance with Nippon," said Alan Zimmerman of Kidder, Peabody and Co.     American Express stock responded favorably to the announcements, climbing 2-1/8 to 79 in active trading today.     Some analysts believe Nippon is also interested in gaining a foothold in the U.S. market with the help of American Express and Shearson.     Analysts predicted other Japanese insurers may be eager to follow Nippon Life. U.S. insurers have found numerous partners themselves in the brokerage industry.     For instance, Equitable Life Assurance Co owns Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp, and Prudential Life Insurance Co owns Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.     Eckenfelder said Japanese brokerage firms would not be likely acquirors of U.S. firms for the time being, although they have often been rumored suitors in the past. Last year, when Shearson unsuccessfully courted E.F. Hutton Group <EFH>, Japanese firms were also rumored to be willing partners.  Reuter &#3;

