 3-APR-1987 14:23:41.77

NEWS CORP'S <NWS> FOX DEBUTS U.S. NETWORK

Fox Broadcasting, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd, is set to launch two prime time television shows this Sunday on what some have called the fourth television network.     The company, built around Murdoch's two billion dlr acquisition of seven television stations last year, marks the first network startup since 1948, when ABC, now owned by Capital Cities/ABC Inc <CCB>, hit the airwaves.     "I think our goal, more than anything else, is to provide an alternative to the three networks," said Fox president Jamie Kellner.     Fox's debut comes when earnings at two of the three networks are under pressure and network advertising dollars have been growing slowly.     "The barriers to entry are exceptionally high," industry analyst Peter Appert of C.J. Lawrence said. "Their (Fox) saving grace is that their parent has deep pockets."     The question television industry, advertising and Wall Street executives are asking is whether this new entry can lure advertisers from the big three: CBS Inc <CBS>, ABC, and NBC, a unit of General Electric Co <GE>.     Network advertising revenues rose to 8.6 billion dlrs in 1986 from 8.3 billion a year earlier, with NBC accounting for all of the gain. Revenues at CBS and ABC declined, analysts noted.     "They (Fox) are competing for the same pool of funds as the traditional networks," said Jon Mandel, associate media director at Grey Advertising Inc.     But James Mandelbaum, a Los Angeles-based entertainment attorney said, "If they have enough money, they have a good chance of making it work."     Fox president Jamie Kellner said the company expects to lose 30 to 50 mln dlrs this year on revenues of about 150 mln dlrs. He said it will take three to five years to turn a profit.     To succeed, the company must also win over the young viewership it has targeted with an offbeat set of shows, two of which debut this Sunday, and another, next weekend.     The first Fox-produced program -- "The Late Show," featuring comedienne Joan Rivers -- was shown last fall on Fox's seven stations and close to 100 affiliates. Although the show has dropped recently in ratings, it still has a captive young audience in the late night time slot, analysts said.     Sunday's prime-time shows include a situation comedy, "Married ... with Children," which Kellner describes as an alternative to the suger coated family shows on the networks. It is also airing "The Tracy Ullman Show," featuring the British comedienne, singer and actress.     Fox has lined up 107 independent TV stations around the U.S. to run the shows. The networks have some 637 affiated stations.     To make sure viewers get a chance to see the programs, the company is taking the unprecedented step of airing them three times in the course of the evening.     "I believe if some of their shows were on the traditional networks, it would be extremely high-rated," Mandel said, who added that his firm has signed up several million dlrs in advertising for the shows.     But some question whether Fox will really become a fourth network. Robert Adler, president of the Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, said many cable shows are geared to the audience Fox is attempting to win. "There are already many alternatives out there to the three networks," he said.     And at least one network is not yet ready to consider Fox the competition. An ABC spokesman said, "the schedule we've put together for this Sunday night ... has not taken Fox's programming schedule into account."     But analysts noted that the major networks are keeping a eye on the venture to see how it fares in the ratings and with its advertisers.     Fox also appears willing to take a long-term view. Asked whether the company will be looking at ratings after Sunday's debut, Kellner said, "the last thing I want to do is worry about ratings because that was the last thing Murdoch told me to do."   Reuter &#3;

