 8-APR-1987 23:49:48.57

N.Z. GOVERNMENT POPULARITY RISES AHEAD OF ELECTION

New Zealand's ruling Labour Party government has just completed its three-year economic reform which threw thousands of people out of work, yet its popularity has risen as the September deadline for the election draws closer, a recent poll shows.     An Eyewitness/Heylen Poll, conducted for Television New Zealand's Eyewitness news broadcast on April 2, showed Labour had the support of 50 pct of voters compared with the opposition National Party's 46 pct.     The figures had been reversed in a poll a month earlier.     The poll showed 40 pct of the canvassed voters thought the economy would improve over the next year, up 12 points on last month's result.     The increase came in a week when the government turned seven departments into nine profit-oriented corporations run by businessmen who promptly sacked some 4,000 employees, including half the country's 1,700 coal miners.     The latest survey confounded those who proclaimed Labour's days were numbered because of perceived insensitivity to its traditional backers, the workers, political analysts said.     The poll indicates people are swinging behind the party and the arguments of Finance Minister Roger Douglas, who has presided over the deregulation of the economy and the construction of one based on market forces without subsidies or currency controls, the analysts said.     The economic reforms, by a party increasingly regarded in New Zealand as more akin to the West European-style Social Democrats than working class socialists, have rattled the National Party, which is now regretting it was not as innovative in the decade it ruled until Prime Minister Robert Muldoon was ousted in 1983, one analyst said.     The National Party was further shaken, the analyst said, when the Press, a Christchurch daily, said on April 2 the party was "on the verge of flying apart" with the prospect of a coup attempt against leader Jim Bolger by Muldoon. Bolger said the article was an April Fool's joke.     Labour's reforms have brought unexpectedly strong tax revenues, a lower budget deficit and less state borrowing, an improvement in the balance of payments, a reduction in foreign debt and improved productivity, economists said.     Inflation should peak at 19.5 pct in the quarter ended March 31 and fall to about eight pct within a year, they said.     Labour's reforms have hit every sector, but the most dramatic was the "corporatisation" of seven government departments on April 1, which critics argue is the first stage step towards the sale of state assets, the analysts said.     The move stops short of privatisation, as the state will retain ownership, but the new corporations are expected to be financially self-supporting and pay dividends.     Arguments have already broken out over money. One utility, Electricorp, said its assets are worth less than 3.8 billion dlrs yet the Treasury wants 8.5 billion for them.     No agreement has been reached on the value of assets of the former forest service, the analysts added.     Chairman Alan Gibbs said in a speech the forest service had been losing 100 mln dlrs annually, yet due to economies it now employed less than 30 pct of its previous workforce and the new corporation would pay the state a dividend of at least 20 mln dlrs in its first year.     Uncertainties have also arisen over the government, as the only shareholder, retaining the right to order the new corporations to undertake certain projects although the full cost must be met by the state, the analysts said.     Deputy prime minister Geoffrey Palmer said managers would be held accountable for performance, with the government paying for projects undertaken for social or environmental reasons.     This policy has already caused problems, the analysts added. For example, Electricorp has refused to spend several hundred million dlrs to build a hydro project at Luggate, further up the Clutha river from the Clyde high dam now under construction in Central Otago.     Prime Minister David Lange said this week that Labour MPs had decided last year that Luggate be built and it was important that the government honour its promises.     "But it is also a matter of importance that we do not see many more jobs lost because of economic distortion than we would save by having that promise honoured to the last," he added.  REUTER &#3;

