20-OCT-1987 05:17:40.79

THAI STOCKS PLUNGE IN REACTION TO WORLDWIDE TREND

Thai stock prices plunged on Tuesday as nervous investors unloaded shares on reports of steep declines on major world stock markets.     Brokers said the Securities Exchange of Thailand Index fell a record 36.64 points, or nearly eight pct, to close at 422.37.     "It's impossible to halt the slide in this situation. The market just doesn't behave logically," said Sirivat Voravetvuthikun, executive vice president of Asian Securities Trading Co Ltd.     But Sirivat said he did not believe the fall would mark the end of the SET's 16 month bull run, which has accelerated during the last two months. He expected Thai stocks to fluctuate widely in the next few weeks.     The slide on Tuesday followed a 13.85 point decline of the 97-stock index on Monday when it closed at 459.01.     Brokers said they were flooded with sell orders when the market opened this morning and a SET announcement urging investors not to panic was ignored.     The index reached a record 472.86 last Friday, up 57.7 pct from end-June and 128.2 pct higher than last December.     SET officials said 77 issues were traded on Tuesday, of which all but two declined. Of the losers, 68 plummeted the daily maximum 10 pct allowed by the exchange. Prices on the special foreign column also fell sharply.     SET vice president Suthichai Chitvanich told reporters the 10 pct floor serves as a restraint, making it unnecessary to suspend trading should the panic continue.     The Thai exchange has lately been gaining on its own strength with most buying coming from local investors.     Investors should not be unduly influenced by foreign market reports, he added.     Suthichai said sound local fundamentals, including low interest rates and promising economic growth, favoured investment in the stock market.     The SET also announced it would release third quarter corporate earnings earlier than expected as part of efforts to shore up public confidence.  REUTER &#3;

