 3-MAR-1987 03:54:11.83

NEUTRAL BUDGET EXPECTED IN SINGAPORE

Singapore's Finance Minister Richard Hu is expected to announce a neutral budget tomorrow with no major tax changes for the 1987/88 year starting April 1, bankers and economists told Reuters.     They said with real growth at an estimated 1.9 pct in calendar 1986, indicating signs of recovery from the 1.7 pct shrinkage in 1985, the government was likely to hold its course and wait for measures introduced in last year's budget to work.     Last March Hu cut corporation tax to 33 pct from 40 pct, and income tax was reduced by the same margin.     Last year the government also reduced wage costs by introducing a wage freeze and cutting employer contributions to the mandatory state savings scheme, the Central Provident Fund (CPF), to 15 pct of salaries from 25 pct.     "I don't foresee any new or additional stimulus because the economy is now improving," said Clemente Escano, vice president of the Union Bank of Switzerland.     The government's economic report for calendar 1986, issued last week, said the CPF reduction and other cost-cutting measures only started to bite in the third quarter of 1986.     But the report said over half the economy -- especially the commerce, financial, and business services sectors -- continued to be depressed by weakness in the surrounding regional economies and an excess of domestic property.     The sources said the fragility of the economic recovery suggested the government would not introduce much of its planned consumption tax in the coming financial year.     In last year's budget Hu said he planned to set up collecting machinery for the tax. Economists said a campaign against smoking this year might be the opportunity for him to levy the tax on tobacco as a first step towards its wider use.     The sources said the government does not look likely to raise more revenue in this year's budget.     Last year's budget projected a 3.22 billion dlr budget deficit for fiscal 1986/87, but the economic report projected an overall calendar 1986 surplus of three billion.     Lower tax revenue was balanced by rising investment income and stringent controls on government operating expenditure, helped by the wage-freeze policy.     Anthony K.P. Lee, vice-president and deputy general manager of American Express Bank Ltd, said he expected nothing exciting from this year's budget.     Lee said, "It will probably be a non-event as most of the tax benefits were given last year. The economy has already started moving so it does not need government support."     Last week's economic report attributed the one pct decline in domestic demand last year mainly to a sharp decline in private construction, so this sector hopes for some relief from the budget, economists said.     The economic report said the sector's activity declined by 25.3 pct in calendar 1986 after a 13.9 pct contraction in 1985. A further decline is expected in 1987.     But in last year's budget a 30 pct rebate on tax for industrial and commercial properties was raised to 50 pct until the end of 1988, so the most Hu is likely to do is add incentives for creating property investment unit trusts.     The only measures known to be in tomorrow's budget are incentives to encourage population growth, including incentives to families who have three children.     Deputy Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong has already announced the government will try to encourage three-child families, instead of the two-child families it encourages now.  REUTER &#3;

