 3-APR-1987 10:02:37.14

CHINA PUTS BRAKE ON KEY REFORM GOAL

Fear of social instability and inflation has forced China to put the brakes on one of its most important economic reforms -- overhauling a pricing system which often bears no relation to production costs.     The price clampdown has occurred during a conservative backlash following the resignation in January of reformist Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang, Western diplomats and Chinese sources say.     "In recent years, prices have not only been rising, but the rate of increase is getting faster and faster," the People's Daily said in a major article this week. "In future, price changes should be only in small steps."     Despite pledges last year that price changes were essential to get the economy on the right track, the government has repeatedly said no major change will happen this year.     "Price changes in the last two years have aroused great public discontent, especially in the cities," a Western diplomat said.     "Chinese were used to stable prices for 30 years from 1949 when the Communists took over. On a recent visit to two major cities, the refrain from all the officials was the need to preserve social stability," he said.     A Chinese journalist said the reformers had underestimated the extent to which the public would tolerate price changes.     "A major review of all economic reforms is under way, the biggest since the reforms began in 1979, because many things are not going well -- a large budget deficit, too rapid price increases and no major improvement in productivity of state firms," he said.     The reformers think it vital to change a system under which prices often bear no relation to production costs.     Sugar is an example. An official newspaper said earlier this year that more than 40 pct of China's sugar mills were losing money or had closed because producing sugar was so unprofitable.     This was because the selling price of sugar has not changed for 20 years, while the mills' production costs have risen sharply over the period.     The economic masterplan for the 1986-90 period, published in April last year, said China would "work steadily to establish a pricing system which better reflects value and the relation between supply and demand."     The People's Daily said that in recent years wage increases had been too high and too much currency printed, resulting in too much money chasing too few goods and causing price hikes and inflation.     The review of the reforms coincides with a national campaign against "bourgeois liberalism," meaning Western political ideas blamed for causing student protests last December.     The journalist said the review was in part due to political factors.     "Economics and politics are inseparable in China. But the Western media is wrong to classify the leadership into reformers and conservatives. All the leaders agree on the main direction -- economic reform and the open-door," he said.     "But there are differences of opinion on the pace of reform and on specific policies. No one is advocating a return to how things were before 1979."     The diplomat said what China feared as a backlash against price rises was not so much rioting in the streets, which he said it had the means to control. "The bottom line is how such protests would be used by those in the power struggle."     A foreign lawyer said he believed the cause of the crisis earlier this year was that the Communist Party leadership had feared, due to the student demonstrations, that it was losing control.     "The leadership here is a self-perpetuating oligarchy. There is no way that it is going to give up power," he said.  Reuter &#3;

