 1-MAR-1987 04:00:48.22

INDIAN BUDGET COMES IN FOR WIDE CRITICISM

Opposition politicians, businessmen and newspapers criticised India"s newly unveiled 1987/88 budget and large projected deficit of around 57 billion rupees.     They said the budget failed to provide incentives for economic growth and merely tinkered with tax reform.     But few politicians were prepared to criticise a sharp rise in defence expenditure in the Hindu-majority nation where playing on fear of aggression by Moslem Pakistan has proved a vote winner. The Indian Express, the country"s biggest selling paper, said: "The defence cow has never been holier."     The Sunday Mail newspaper branded the budget "shamelessly political." It said in a front page commentary the "budget is bad for growth, bad for prices, bad for the stock market and neutral in respect of everything else."     Businessmen polled by Reuters said the budget had done little for them.     Gandhi announced small increases in poverty alleviation and education outlays but he ordered a hold-down on current expenditure in an attempt to rein in the budget deficit. He told ministries to curb spending and promised a review of money-losing public sector industries.     Gandhi lowered import tariffs on some computer parts but otherwise did little to extended the economic liberalisation policy launched two years ago.     Reaction in Bombay, India"s business capital, was generally unfavourable.     Businessmen and economists said the budget had no proposals for closing the 1987/88 budget deficit. It also failed to boost industrial investment and productivity needed to lift real economic growth above the five pct a year envisaged by the 1985-90 development plan.     Nalin Vissanji, President of the Indian Merchants Chambers of Commerce said the budget gave no incentives to the capital market and had not fulfilled a government pledge to remove surtax on corporate income.     Shares on The Bombay Stock Exchange, India"s biggest, fell in a post-budget session yesterday but brokers welcomed Gandhi"s proposal to set up a regulatory board for the securities industry.     The exchange was shaken last year by several scandals and trading was suspended several times.     Brokers said trading volume may increase with the change in capital gains tax on stock sales.     Stockholders can now sell shares after one year instead of three years without incurring capital gains tax.     Stock Exchange President Ramdas Dalal said yesterday the fall in share prices after the budget came as profits were taken and he expected to the market to firm in days to come.  REUTER &#3;

