 3-APR-1987 09:58:42.45

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - TOKYO HARD ON FOREIGN TRADERS

Overseas securities firms are spending millions of dollars to set up operations in Tokyo, but many will end up losing money, industry sources said.     For banks and securities firms eager to establish themselves as international players, building a presence in Japan has become an imperative. Thirty-six are already licensed to trade securities on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the world's second largest. More than 50 are expected by year-end.     But, as deregulation erodes brokers' profits and the global share-buying spree is predicted to subside, only those securities traders with first-class financial muscle will survive, the sources said.     "There will be foreigners' fallout. They come in here with too glib ideas about how they can survive," said David Miller, director and general manager of Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd's Tokyo branch.     Despite soaring share prices, sharp falls in commissions on stock transactions have hurt even brokerages that came to Tokyo early.     "Japanese equities are no longer a very profitable business. The margins are nothing like they were two or three years ago. Things are not as rosy as they may seem," Miller said.     Publicly reported earnings of foreign securities houses in Japan for the half-year ended September 30, 1986, showed Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd on top with profits of 1.7 billion yen. Most other firms reported hefty gains over the year before. But industry sources say the figures do not fully reveal the costs of running an international brokerage in the world's most expensive city.     Salary packages with free housing for novice analysts routinely run more than 100,000 dlrs a year. Miller, whose firm had earnings of 1.4 billion yen for the half-year to September 1986, said costs for an operation strong enough to endure are 10 to 15 mln dlrs a year. "I'd be surprised if more than two or three were making money if they honestly accounted for their costs," he said.     To bring commissions closer to world rates, the Finance Ministry slashed fixed brokerage fees last year, especially on large-lot deals. In a few years, all rates may be negotiated as they are in New York and London, industry sources said.     Since last October's Big Bang deregulation of London's financial markets, at least half the equity trading deals there have generated no commission income at all. Stockbroking firms are unlikely to make money until some are forced out of business, analysts said.     The first foreign firms to set up here, especially the six admitted as members in February 1986, have an advantage over the latecomers, they said. The six are <Merrill Lynch Japan Inc>, <Goldman Sachs International Corp>, <Morgan Stanley International Inc>, <Vickers Da Costa Ltd>, <Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd> and <S.G. Warburg and Co (Japan) Ltd>.     The memberships, which cost about five mln dlrs, allow firms to execute their own trades and, unlike houses with branch status, avoid paying away 27 pct of their commissions to have member firms place trades.     Members can also communicate instantly with the exchange floor, a vital source of information in a market that tends to follow the leader. Sources said seven to 10 more seats on the exchange are likely to open up sometime in 1988.     For non-member firms, wrestling away market share from tenacious Japanese and foreign firms is costly and intangibles sometimes prove even more important than exchange membership.     "Your name is better known if you're a member of the right club," Miller said. "It's easier to hire ... New people."     To inaugurate its Japan operation, <SBCI Securities (Asia) Ltd> flew out the Basel Ballet last January for receptions in Tokyo and Osaka. The firm, 50 pct owned by <Swiss Bank Corp>, gave guests gifts of Swiss chocolates and Swatch watches.     "It's expensive, but a party like that is a token of the serious way we regard our development in Tokyo," SBCI's Tokyo branch manager Gregory Shenkman said.     To establish its position quickly, SBCI hired a 26-strong research unit from <W.I. Carr (Overseas) Ltd>'s Tokyo office.     "I was very lucky," Shenkman said. "I was anticipating a considerable struggle to organically develop a research team.     "I am not particularly optimistic for the prospects in the Japanese equity market for continental European banks who have little experience in equities outside their domestic equity market," he said.     But the prospect of closing down operations may be worse.     "One would be ill-advised to open here and close, and then decide to open again two or three years later. I'm not sure the Japansese community would respond well to that sort of attitude," he said.  REUTER &#3;

