19-JUN-1987 11:17:25.47

SPAIN PLANS TARIFF OVERHAUL FOR POWER UTILITIES

Spain's socialist government is aiming to restore confidence of foreign banks in its power generation sector by pushing through a complete reform of the industry's tariff structure, a senior government official said.     Most foreign banks have been refusing to extend fresh loans to the mainly privately-owned sector since Fuerzas Electricas de Catalunya S.A. (FECSA), a major utility, defaulted on two billion dlrs of foreign currency debt earlier this year.     Secretary of State for the Economy, Guillermo De la Dehesa, told Reuters in an interview that a new government-inspired tariff mechanism providing for automatic increases each year would guarantee the long term viability of the industry.     He said a bill would be sent before the Spanish Cortes (parliament) this summer, enabling tariff increases from next year to be set under the new system.     De la Dehesa declined to give technical details of the scheme, known here as the "Marco Estable" (stable framework), but said future tariff increases would make up for the failure of past adjustments to cover rising costs.     "The utility companies have a captive market and if they are assured a satisfactory tariff structure they will have the best of all possible worlds to do business in," De la Dehesa said.     FECSA's debt crisis has caused concern among foreign and Spanish bankers who expressed fears that other utility companies may default for lack of fresh funds unless confidence in the industry's future is restored.     Spain's 14 leading power utilities have massive debts, with short and medium term exposure of 4,377 billion pesetas at the end of last year. A significant proportion of it is in foreign currency, bankers say.     The new tariff plan, currently being discussed with representatives of the utility industry and Spanish bankers, would shortly be presented to foreign creditors, De la Dehesa said.     FECSA's problems were precipitated in February when the stock exchange suspended trading in the company's stock on the grounds that it could not meet its debts.      "FECSA was a special case," De la Dehesa said, "but the banks took fright and extended the crisis to the rest of the utility sector. We really did not expect this."     Much foreign bank lending to the utility sector has been on the strength of a government commitment made to international bankers at a presentation in London in 1983 to support the industry.     "I think if foreign banks were lending on the basis of declarations by our energy authorities in London, they will have all the more reason to do so when the new tariff system is passed into law," De la Dehesa said.      "This is going to be a palpable fact, not just a declaration," he added.     De la Dehesa said he believed that once confidence was restored in the sector as a whole, FECSA's debt problems would be quickly solved.     A recently formed steering committee representing FECSA's foreign creditors is due to meet FECSA managers in Barcelona on Tuesday for a round of talks on rescheduling the ailing utility's debt.     FECSA's General Manager, Jose Zaforteza, told Reuters he thought the climate of the talks would be greatly improved by the new tariff proposals.     "You cannot go far wrong when you are managing an electrical utility provided the tariffs you charge are sufficient to cover your costs," Zaforteza said.     The General Manager of the Madrid branch of a U.S. Bank which has lent money to FECSA said there would be little significant progress in the rescheduling talks until details of the tariff proposals were known.     "We cannot make any projections about FECSA's ability to pay its debts unless we know what the tariffs are going to be," he said.     "If you make annual increases over a period of years of four, five or six pct, in each case it's a completely different ball game," he said.  REUTER &#3;

