20-MAR-1987 04:41:47.89

SAS POSTPONES PLANS TO BUY 12 MD-11S

SAS <Scandinavian Airline Systems> said it was postponing a decision on a 10-billion crown order for 12 McDonnell Douglas <MD N> MD-11 airliners following what it said was an aggressive counter-bid from Airbus Industrie.     SAS signed a letter of intent for the MD-11s last December, but a company statement said the decision on whether to harden this up into a firm order would be linked to the outcome of negotiations with the United States on deregulating air fares across the North Atlantic.     The SAS move, said by analysts to be a big blow to McDonnell Douglas, came following a Copenhagen board meeting of the airline in which the governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway jointly own a 50 pct stake. The remainder is held by industry.     A company statement said SAS would wait to see the outcome of the government-to-government negotiations with the United States, in which the three Scandinavian countries have demanded greater access to the U.S. Domestic market for SAS in exchange for deregulating prices across the North Atlantic.     At present SAS is allowed to fly to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle and Anchorage.     SAS gave no details of the Airbus Industrie counter-offer for its long-range A340, but said it will study the bid further.     Swissair yesterday confirmed an order for the MD-11 long haul jets worth 1.2 billion Swiss francs and said it had preferred the McDonnell Douglas planes over the A340, a project that has not yet been formally launched, as it met the airline's requirements better and would be able to enter service in 1990.     SAS President Jan Carlzon announced the MD-11 order last December, saying the plane would replace the airline's current fleet of DC10s. The first of the MD-11s was to be delivered in 1991 for use mainly on its intercontinental routes.     In January, SAS officials said Airbus had made a revised offer that included larger, more powerful engines and two versions of the four-engine plane. One would seat 220 passengers and another 260 against the MD-11's 265-seat capacity.     The offer was part of a drive to secure at least five airline customers for the new aircraft to enable Airbus Industrie to launch production. Airbus is expected to decide whether to go ahead with the project next month.     SAS officials earlier said they did not expect the first A340 to be delivered before 1992. McDonnell Douglas had given SAS until March 31 to agree to final terms for the MD-11 deal.  REUTER &#3;

