13-MAR-1987 08:04:21.28

AIRBUS FACES A340 DECISION AS DEADLINE LOOMS

The supervisory board of the European consortium, <Airbus Industrie>, has begun a critical meeting to review government funding and airline orders for its proposed A340 long range jet, Airbus officials here said.     Airbus insists it needs five airlines to firmly commit themselves to the plane before going ahead with the project by the month's end, the deadline for its launch.     The plane, a four-engined widebodied jet, has so far only been bought by one airline -- <Lufthansa>, which has placed 15 firm orders and 15 options for the plane.     But while Air France has said it wants to buy seven of the aircraft, it has not yet formally placed an order. Discussions with up to a dozen other airlines have not yet resulted in public commitments.     Apart from a shortage of orders, Airbus also is facing an uphill struggle persuading its member governments to fund the 2.5 billion dlr project, which involves not only the A340 but its sister A330 aircraft, a twin engined, wide bodied medium range jet with many identical components.     The British government remains unconvinced that there will be sufficient room in the world long range jet market.     The West German government is also uncommitted, and is currently pressing for a restructuring of the consortium's West German company, <Deutsche Airbus GmbH>, while only the French government appears to be fully behind the program.     Another major factor delaying a final decision on the plane has been the engine which will power it. Airbus agreed last October with <CFM International> that its CFM-56 engine with 28,600 lbs of thrust would power the plane. But in December, Airbus announced an agreement with CFM rival <International Aero Engine> (IAE) to power a slightly larger version of the A340 with a 30,000 lb thrust high-technology superfan engine.    Airbus has made clear to potential customers that the IAE engine is now the principle engine for the project.  The incorporation of the superfan engine made the plane on paper more attractive to airlines, but the engine has yet to be developed and CFM International had openly expressed scepticism that the engine will be ready when the plane goes into service.     The future of the Airbus consortium depends on the right decision being made on the A340 in the next few weeks, for it could find itself severely exposed in the 1990s either by staying absent from the long range jet market or by committing itself to a commercially unviable project.  REUTER &#3;

