 5-APR-1987 03:37:45.30

WHITE HOUSE DENIES ANY FURTHER ARMS SALES TO IRAN

The White House denied a report that the United States was continuing to ship arms or weapons-related equipment to Iran, but an administration official said there had been non-weapons sales to Tehran through commercial channels.     "To the best of our knowledge, there have been no illegal sales from the forbidden munitions list," a White House spokesman said.     The Defence Department also denied any military supplies had been sent to Iran since an administration ban late last year.     NBC television, quoting U.S. And foreign intelligence sources, reported that the United States had been shipping weapons-related equipment to Iran as recently as last month.     The administration official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters there had been commercial sales of products licensed by the Commerce Department, which maintains a list of products that can be exported without hurting national security.     President Reagan banned arms shipments to Tehran after the Iran arms scandal broke last November.     In January Secretary of State George Shultz told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee there would be "no more transfers of U.S.-origin military equipment to Iran, either directly or through third parties."     The NBC report said the Pentagon was coordinating shipments of anti-aircraft command and control equipment used to direct fire of weapons systems.     It said some shipments labelled "machine parts" had moved through Ostend, Belgium,on aircraft of the Santa Lucia Airways, which it identified as operated by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The CIA refused to comment.     NBC said the equipment was flown to Pakistan and then on to Iran by Pakistani civilian and military aircraft.     Later, State Department spokeswoman Sondra McCarty said: "We categorically deny that the United States is selling and/or sending any weapons to Iran." She added that Washington was "not doing anything in connection with the government of Iran which is not consistent with U.S. Laws or trade policy."     Another administration official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters the United States had licensed commercial sales of low-technology computer equipment to Iran, amounting to about 60 mln dlrs over the last three years.  REUTER &#3;

