12-MAR-1987 17:57:02.22

CBOE CREATES NEW CLASS OF S AND P 500 OPTIONS

In order to accomodate the shift in the settlement procedure for options on the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index that the exchange announced last month, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) said it has created a new class of options for the S and P contract <SPX>.     The CBOE's new contract was needed to coincide with changes in the settlement procedure that the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) made on its S and P 500 futures and options contract which will be implemented with the expiration of the June contract.     Settlement of the CBOE's new option contract will be based on the opening price of the S and P 500 index on expiraton day, while settlement of the current contract is based on the closing price of the index.     "CBOE doesn't think that opening settlement is the solution to the expiration effect, but we cannot exposure investors in our market to unanticipated risks arising from different settlement times in options and futures," CBOE chairman Alger Chapman said in a release.     "We're taking this step to give investors a choice of settlement times that meet their hedging needs," Chapman said.     The new contract was necessary because the Options Clearing Corp (OCC) did not allow its member exchanges to modify terms of any of its outstanding contracts, the CBOE said.     The new contract will satisfy the needs of customers who require an options contract based on opening prices of the index, the CBOE said.     The opening settlement contract will trade parallel to the closing settlement contract as long as the CME maintains its opening settlement procedure for the S and P 500 futures contract, a CBOE spokesperson said.     However, she noted that customer preference for one type of settlement procedure will eventually determine which contract will prevail.     The opening settlement contract will trade on a March, June, September, December quarterly expiration cycle and will be listed as soon as the OCC revises its contract prospectus, possible in April, the exchange said.  Reuter &#3;

