12-MAR-1987 12:15:25.46

NIAGARA MOHAWK <NMK> TO REPLACE NINE MILE VALVES

Niagara Mohawk Power Co said the existing ball-type main steam isolation valves installed at Unit Two of the Nine Mile Nuclear Station will be replaced with standard Y-pattern globe valves.     This decision will delay start-up of the power plant for about three to four months, resulting in a delay in commercial operation of the plant to as late as the beginning of 1988, the utility said. It previously had projected commercial operation in September.     The possibility of a delay to the first quarter 1988 was raised by Rochester Gas and Electric Corp <RGS> last week.     Niagara Mohawk said the delay will add to the plant's cost at the rate of about 60 mln dlrs per month.     A spokesman said this includes a total of about 10 mln dlrs for removing the old valves and buying and installing the new ones.     The utility said the total anticipated cost of the plant is now about six billion dlrs, up from the 5.87 billion dlrs projected previously.     This has increased the minimum overall disallowances under the settlement Nine Mile Two's owners reached with New York state regulators to over 2.1 billion dlrs, it added.     Niagara Mohawk has a 41 pct interest in Nine Mile Two, making its share of the disallowance about 1.1 billion dlrs before income tax effects.     Long Island Lighting Co <LIL> and New York State Electric and Gas Corp <NGE> each have an 18 pct interest in the plant while Rochester Gas owns 14 pct and Central Hudson Gas and Electric Corp <CNH> has nine pct.     The ball valves were manufactured by a Gulf and Western Inc <GW> subsidiary which is now owned by Crosby Valve and Gauge Co, a subsidiary of Gearhart Industries Inc <GOI>, the spokesman said.     The Niagara Mohawk spokesman said the Nine Mile Two owners are looking into the possibility that the valve supplier might have liability for the costs of the delays caused by the valves.     The utility said the replacement valves are manufactured by Rockwell International Inc <ROK>.     The company said it spent considerable time testing and modifying the ball valves which, until recently, "demonstrated potential for both improvement in performance and in ease of maintenance."     "Since activities to date have not yet proven to be completely successful and because of timing and resulting additional cost of achieving the leak tightness standard is uncertain, we have no choice but to replace them," Niagara Mohawk said of the ball valves.  Reuter &#3;

