13-APR-1987 09:33:57.92

TEXACO <TX> USES BANKRUPTCY COURT TO BUY TIME

Texaco Inc.'s plunge into bankruptcy to shield it from posting a bond in its 10.53 billion dlr legal battle with Pennzoil Co. <PZL> is a strategy that will give it breathing room until the fight over the 1984 acquisition of Getty Oil Co. winds its way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, analysts said.     Texaco, the nation's third-largest oil company, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code earlier today, saying it had no choice because of Pennzoil's refusal to negotiate a reasonable settlement.     But unlike most Chapter 11 cases, the Texaco proceeding should not result in a major reorganization of the company or affect its daily business operations, several experts said.     "This is another piece of financial history," Sanford Margoshes, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, said of the bankruptcy filing. "What Texaco is doing is buying time to fight its battle in the courts. They have high hopes they will be upheld if the case goes all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court."     Margoshes said he did not anticipate any significant changes in Texaco's oil exploration and production business because the bankruptcy filing affects only about four pct of the giant oil company's 32.6 billion dlrs in annual revenues.     Texaco executives said the bankruptcy filing would effectively halt payments of stock dividends and repayment of its 6.8 billion dlr debt, but added that the company's assets far exceeded its liabilities.     "Texaco's cash flow is at a very respectable rate of about 15 dlrs per share annually," Margoshes said. "Obviously, the point of Chapter 11 was not so much seeking protection from creditors as it was seeking protection from the predator Pennzoil."     The two companies have been locked in an acrimonious struggle since a Texas state court jury in November 1985 ordered Texaco to pay Pennzoil 10.53 billion dlrs for improperly interfering with Pennzoil's planned acquisition of Getty Oil Co. In a major setback for Texaco last week, the U.S. Supreme Court said Texaco must abide by Texas state law that requires posting a bond for the full amount of the judgment while the merits of the case were appealed.     Although a Texas appeals court hearing was scheduled Monday (April 13) on Texaco's motion to reduce the amount of the bond required under state law, Texaco elected not to risk losing the important court ruling that could have required it to post more than 10 billion dlrs in collateral.     The bankruptcy filing, analysts said, effectively freezes all of Texaco's obligations while it continues to appeal the merits of the Pennzoil lawsuit.     "This is a drastic measure," said Rosario Ilacqua, an analyst with L.F. Rothschild in New York. "But it's also an indictment of the legal system in this country in that Texaco was forced to seek bankruptcy when it couldn't get a fair hearing."     Ilacqua predicted that the Texas jury judgment would ultimately be overturned or whittled down from its original 10.53 billion dlrs, an amount that is increasing by about 2.5 mln dlrs in interest accumulated daily. Texaco has contested the ruling, insisting that Pennzoil did not have a valid contract under New York state law to acquire Getty Oil.     Suggestions by some experts that the Texaco bankruptcy might be an incentive for Pennzoil to lower its settlement demands, which are widely believed to be between 3 billion and 5 billion dlrs, were discounted by indignant Pennzoil executives.     "I think it makes it much more difficult to settle," said Baine Kerr, Pennzoil's retired president who has acted as the company's chief negotiator in the Texaco litigation. "I think that's one of the main reasons they did it."     Joseph Jamail, a Houston lawyer for Pennzoil, said the company had made its latest settlement offer to Texaco on Saturday and was taken by surprise when Texaco filed for bankruptcy. He declined to reveal the amount of the proposal, citing a confidentiality agreement between the two companies.     "Texaco told us they would get back to us but instead they chose to go to bankruptcy court," Jamail said. "This was an irresponsible and unneeded move."     Ilacqua also said the bankruptcy filing appeared to eliminate any chance of settlement in the near-term.     "There have been some crazy numbers floating around in settlement discussions," Ilacqua said. "I think 1 billion dlr settlement would be more than adequate for Pennzoil. I don't know if that Texas jury really understood what money is. They gave Pennzoil an astronomical judgment."     Analysts said they expected Texaco stock, which closed Friday at 31 and 7/8, to slip to about 25 when the New York Stock Exchange opened Monday morning.     Lawyers for Pennzoil said they believed the company would prevail in court appeals, adding that Texaco's assets were ample enough to ultimately pay the Pennzoil judgment in full.  Reuter &#3;

