 9-APR-1987 10:38:57.84

UK, FRANCE TO URGE DEBT RELIEF FOR POOREST LANDS

Britain, France and other European nations will make a strong plea in high-level meetings today for urgent debt relief for the very poorest countries, European monetary sources said.     The request will be put to the International Monetary Fund's policy-making Interim Committee, which meets here as part of semi-annual IMF and World Bank talks.     But it is likely to run into opposition from the United States, which regards debt relief, even for the world's poorest nations in Sub-Saharan Africa, with distaste.     "If all creditors agreed, (Britain and France) would be prepared to consider below market interest rates " for the countries, one source said.     A senior U.S. Treasury official poured cold water on the plan earlier this week, however. "We are not willing to enter into arrangements that would forgive debt or provide concessional interest rates," the official said.     At the heart of the American objection is the fear that once such a concession is made for the very poorest nations, then sooner or later Latin debtors will be demanding similar relief.     African nations owe foreign creditors, most of them governments, over 70 billion dlrs. Over 21 billion dlrs is debt owed by poorest Sub-Saharan African nations.     In addition to interest rate concessions, the sources said European countries wanted repayment of these loans to be stretched out for up to 20 years, with a substantial delay before capital repayments start.     The issue was inconclusively discussed in yesterday's meetings of the major industrial nations -- the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.     It is already under consideration by the Paris Club of western creditor nations, to which the United States belongs.     "There are quite obviously differences about it," one source said of the American attitude. "But it is perfectly clear that (debt repayment) is an abiding problem for a small number of the poorest countries."     The plan would also involve the conversion of bilateral aid to these countries into outright grants, a policy already adopted by Paris and London. REUTER^M &#3;

