19-JUN-1987 12:09:34.05

S. AFRICA CITICORP STAFF CHALLENGE DISINVESTMENT

South African staff of the U.S. Bank Citicorp <CCI> said they will challenge its plans to sell local operations and withdraw from the country.     Employees said they had written to Citicorp chief executive John Reed protesting against the way the disinvestment deal has been handled. They said that they were not consulted on the sale of Citicorp's local subsidiary, Citibank N.A. Ltd, to South Africa's First National Bank <BCLJ.J>.     The letter, signed by most of the bank's 175 staff, hints at legal action against Citicorp unless it reviews the disinvestment arrangement.     "We are seriously considering legal action," a senior Citibank employee told Reuters. "There has been no consultation with South African staff and that runs contrary to American corporate thinking in this country," he added.     Citicorp announced the 130 mln rand cash sale on Tuesday with an effective date of July 1.     First National Bank's managing director, Chris Ball, said his bank was essentially buying the skills of Citibank's specialist employees and disclosed that the American bank's assets in South Africa totalled only 15 mln rand.     Ball indicated that the bank's staff had been told of the sale and agreed to stay on in the bank's employ.     Citibank's staff, 40 pct of whom are black, have complained that the disinvestment accord bars local employees from jobs with Citicorp anywhere in the world for five years.     They say that this provision amounts to a restraint clause which is legally challengeable. This could threaten the divestment plan, say industry sources, since most of the purchase price, as Ball said, is for employee skills and expertise and not assets.     The Citibank employee challenge is seen as more important than a previous, ultimately unsuccessful, challenge on job security issues by General Motors employees after the U.S. Automaker announced its pull out, because valuable managers and other key staff are involved in protest.     The employees assert that the Citicorp sale, unlike similar disinvestment moves announced this week by <Ford Motor Co> and <ITT Corp>, include no portion of South African profits for local employees or black community projects.     "We always thought they would offer a settlement to staff here in keeping with their image as an equal opportunity employer," said a senior black employee, adding "We had no idea that the age of slavery was still alive."  REUTER &#3;

