 1-JUN-1987 08:51:41.01

U.S. CORPORATE FINANCE - FINANCING SURGE SEEN

U.S. corporate treasurers are expected to race to market this week, propelled by hopes that the recent recoveries of the Treasury market and the dollar will whet investors' appetities for new issues, underwriters said.     Underwriters expect to price about 2.3 billion dlrs of new debt issues this week, including an asset-backed debt deal.     "Treasurers have been sitting on the sidelines for weeks, waiting to pounce," said an underwriter with a large Wall Street house. "They will hit the market at a fast pace as long as the dollar remains stable."     "The financing calendar is the heaviest it has been in weeks," said a trader with a small securities firm.     "And there are billions of dollars on the SEC shelf that can come to market at any time," he said, referring to company debt filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.     Investment bankers said last week signaled a surge in financings. New debt offerings rose to nearly 2.8 billion dlrs during the holiday-shortened week from 2.09 billion dlrs in the previous week, they calculated.     "And most of (last week's) issues were not even on the calendar," an underwriter remarked.     Analysts noted that in the past few months the fixed-income markets became virtually obsessed with the dollar. The currency's sharp drop ignited fears that foreign investors would shun dollar-denominated debt vehicles.     Also, many participants believed inflation would gather momentum because of the dollar's fall. Inflation is the number one enemy of fixed-rate investments, analysts explained.     But the dollar's recovery last week calmed worries in the Treasury and corporate bond markets over foreign investor demand and inflation. The resulting decline in yields should bring company treasurers to market, traders said.     Underwriters are slated to bid competitively tomorrow for 250 mln dlrs of first mortgage bonds due 2017 of Georgia Power Co, a unit of Southern Co <SO>. The issue is rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors and BBB-plus by Standard and Poor's.     This would be Georgia Power's first bond issue in the U.S. since August 1986 when it sold 250 mln dlrs of same-rated, same-maturity 10 pct bonds yielding 250 basis points more than comparable Treasury securities.     Tomorrow will see another competitive. Syndicates will bid for 100 mln dlrs of 30-year bonds rated A-1/A-plus of Virginia Electric and Power Co, a unit of Dominion Resources Inc <D>.     Virginia Electric last visited the domestic debt market in October 1986 when the utility issued 100 mln dlrs of same-rated, same-maturity 9-1/4 pct bonds. The bonds were priced to yield 9.27 pct, or 141 basis points over Treasuries.     The biggest investment grade deal tentatively scheduled for pricing this week is 600 mln dlrs of securities due 1992 backed by the automobile loan receivables of Marine Midland Banks <MM>. Salomon Brothers Inc will head the syndicate.     The Marine Midland issue follows last week's offering of 230 mln dlrs of car loan backed debt by RepublicBank Dallas NA, a unit of RepublicBank Corp <RPT>, underwriters noted.     Goldman, Sachs and Co led the group for the RepublicBank deal. First Boston Corp and Salomon Brothers, the most active underwriters of asset-backed securities, were co-managers.     First Boston has dominated the asset-backed market since introducing the concept of selling these securities in March 1985. It has a commanding 86.1 pct share of the 12.5 billion dlr market, according to figures tabluated by First Boston.     Salomon Brothers is in second place with a market share of 8.8 pct, followed by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc's share of 3.5 pct of the market. Goldman Sachs is next with a 1.6 pct market share that was calculated before the RepublicBank Dallas deal.     Indeed, investment bankers say that banks will be the most frequent issuers of asset-backed securities this year. The finance arms of the U.S. automakers accounted for the bulk of last year's offerings, with General Motors Corp's <GM> General Motors Acceptance Corp taking the lion's share of that.     The Marine Midland cars deal is rated a top-flight AAA by both Moody's and Standard and Poor's because it is backed by a letter of credit by Union Bank of Switzerland.     Recently, Imperial Savings and Loan Association of San Diego filed a registration statement with the SEC covering 100 mln dlrs of credit card backed debt, underwriters noted.  Reuter &#3;

