11-MAR-1987 10:50:03.34

NAKASONE SET TO STAY UNTIL TAX REFORM APPROVED

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will step down only after his plan to overhaul Japan's tax system gets parliamentary approval, one of his closest aides said today.     The aide, who declined to be identified, said at a private meeting, "Nakasone's power in office does not necessarily terminate at the end of his term in October. It depends on when (the) seven tax reform bills get parliamentary approval."     Nakasone vowed yesterday to press on with his plan despite Sunday's unexpected Upper House by-election defeat of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in a conservative stronghold.     The socialist winner, backed by other opposition parties, had campaigned against a controversial five pct value added sales tax, the main plank of the reform plans.     The aide dismissed the possibility of any amendment of the sales tax on the grounds the opposition parties were demanding nothing but retraction of the tax.     They have been refusing to discuss a draft budget for the 1987 fiscal year starting on April 1, which includes the tax plans. They have been resorting to an on-off boycott of parliament since February 4.    "If I were Nakasone, I would close the current regular parliamentary session on May 27 as scheduled, attend the Venice summit of industrial democracies in June and open an extraordinary session to discuss the tax plans," the aide said.     Under law, a regular session can be extended only once while an extraordinary session can be extended twice.The other option would be to extend the current session, he said.     "The opposition parties will surely present a no-confidence motion against the Nakasone Cabinet at one stage or another."     One scenario then will be to reject the motion opening up the way for tax reform.    "Another scenario is the resignation of the Nakasone Cabinet en masse. A third scenario is a dissolution of the Lower House for a snap general election," the aide said.     That is only possible if the 200 opposition members resign from the 512-seat Lower House, necessitating by-elections.     The LDP now has 304 seats in the Lower House after its landslide victory in general elections last July.     There are five independents and three vacancies.     "The LDP which will put up candidates will certainly inflate their seats, but at the expense of fierce media criticism," the aide said.     He said he expected the proposed sales tax to have little effect on local elections to be held on April 12 and 26.     About 2,600 elections will be held in all but three of the nation's 47 prefectures including 13 gubernatorial elections.     "Candidates running in prefectural assemblies will all oppose the sales tax irrespective of their party tickets.     "Possible effects, if any, will be on gubernatorial elections in Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido and Fukuoka in southern Japan," he said.     The two posts are now held by opposition socialists.  REUTER &#3;

