 2-JUN-1987 16:38:43.85

VOLCKER LEAVING DESPITE REAGAN REQUESTS TO STAY

Paul Volcker's departure as Federal Reserve Board chairman came despite pleas from the Reagan administration that he stay at the helm of the U.S. central bank, U.S. officials said.     "The President made it very clear that he would be very, very pleased had the chairman's decision been otherwise," Treasury Secretary James Baker said.     A Reagan administration official, who asked not to be identified, said Baker too had urged Volcker repeatedly in the past several months to consider staying on as chairman.     But there were no indications the administration had told Volcker that it was in the national interest for him to stay and that current global economic uncertainties required it.     Associates of Volcker have assumed Volcker would only have stayed on in such circumstances. "He doesn't care a lot, emotionally, about a third term," Nikko Securities vice-chairman Stephen Alixrod, until last year a top Fed staffer, told Reuters recently.     Officials are confident that newly-nominated chairman Alan Greenspan will re-establish close working relations with Baker and his credentials eventually will calm markets.     One Reagan administration economic policymaker, who asked not to be named, pointed out that Baker and Greenspan worked together closely in the Ford administration.     At the time, Baker was acting Secretary of Commerce and Greenspan headed the President's Council of Economic Advisers.     Reagan administration officials made clear, meanwhile, that the announcement, precipitated by Volcker's unshakeable decision to quit, came in order to clear up uncertainty ahead of the Summit of leading industrial democracies in Venice.     President Reagan might have been in an embarrassing position if no decision had been made by then.     Volcker enjoys the respect of most top economic officials abroad, and is admired at the West German Bundesbank, and in Tokyo, despite his criticism  of Japanese policies.     Financial markets, possibly reflecting some of the disappointment in foreign capitals, drove the dollar sharply lower on news of his departure, prompting central bank intervention to stem the fall, dealers said.     Finance Ministries and central banks of the other summit nations -- Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- were informed shortly before the news was announced, Baker told reporters today.     Monetary sources also said one reason Volcker decided to resign was his personal financial situation and his marriage  -- his wife lives in New York and did not want him to take up a second term in mid-1983.     Volcker has foregone potentially million-dollar salaries to a life almost overwhelmingly devoted to public service at pay rates low relative to his financial commitments.     Both these reasons at one time prompted him to consider stepping down before his second term was completed.     But Volcker also hinted there might be more than personal reasons for his decision. "It was a personal decision, taking account of a lot of things, including purely personal considerations and others," he told reporters.     Fed sources note Volcker's considerable unease at the lack of progress by the administration in reaching a budget deficit reduction agreement.     In addition, Volcker would have faced four more years with a Board that he was less than comfortable with, monetary sources say. The other five members are Reagan appointees.     What may unsettle markets, however, is the fact that the Fed governors now have only six to seven years' collective experience between them, at a time of great financial uncertainty.     Analysts said that while Greenspan might well be considered as tough an inflation-fighter as Volcker, his Republican credentials could make him more of a political Fed chairman than Volcker.     An administration official said Volcker was consulted on Greenspan "and very much approved of his replacement."     But one analyst compared Greenspan's relationship to the administration, to whom he has been an unofficial economic adviser, with the relationship former chairman Arthur Burns had with the Nixon administration.     Burns was somewhat more sympathetic to the administration viewpoint than Volcker has been, and Burns was less willing to make radical policy changes.     Making clear his decision was a strong one, Volcker told reporters, "I told (Reagan) with considerable definitiveness yesterday." Administration officials said Volcker arrived at the White House yesterday afternoon with his resignation.     When renominated in mid-1983, Volcker said he would probably step down within two years. Monetary sources said the departure of Donald Regan as Treasury Secretary was one factor that convinced him to stay on. Regan and Volcker clashed almost from the start of the administration.     Another, these sources said, was the prospect of being able to work with Baker as Treasury Secretary to tackle the international debt crisis and deal with the then high-flying dollar.  Reuter &#3;

