22-MAR-1987 20:01:10.69

SWISS BANKERS PLANNING COMPROMISE ON SECRECY CURBS

Bankers, concerned about official calls for curbs on Switzerland's banking secrecy, are likely to propose a compromise plan when they meet regulators today, the Bankers Federation Secretary said.     Andreas Hubschmid confirmed a report in yesterday's Sonntagsblick the Federation would make proposals to curb the anonymity given to some bank clients who hide their identities behind lawyers or fiduciary agents.     "The Sonntagsblick story goes in the right direction, and I cannot deny it," Hubschmid told Reuters.     Hubschmid declined to confirm details, saying nothing had yet been decided.     Recent allegations U.S. Officials involved in the arms-for-Iran scandal took advantage of Swiss discretion to open accounts here have added fuel to the long-running secrecy debate, while Manila has said former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos put a fortune into banks here.     While Swiss banks are strictly forbidden to reveal the names of their clients to the outside world, a self-governing code of conduct dating from 1977 requires the bankers themselves know the identities of their clients.     But the banking code, due for renewal this October, allows a client to hide his name behind a lawyer provided the latter signs the so-called "B-form" guaranteeing that his client is not misusing his anonymity for criminal purposes.     The Commission said at the end of last year it wanted use of the form drastically reduced.     The bankers' compromise plan, Sonntagsblick said, quoting reliable sources, aims to eliminate abuses by differentiating between lawyers who just manage portfolios for their clients and those who do so only as a small part of a wider legal service.     Only in the second case, would the use of the B-form still be allowed, it said. Other clients would have to give up their anonymity and reveal their identities to the bank.     Commission President Hermann Bodenmann said the Commission was likely to discuss the proposal at today's meeting with the bankers, and during its own council session on Tuesday. He declined further comment.  The banks draw up their own rules of conduct. But banking analysts said the banks cannot afford to ignore the views of the Commission, which is ultimately responsible for preventing abuses.  REUTER &#3;

