29-JUN-1987 09:20:48.89

ALLIS-CHALMERS <AH> FILES FOR CHAPTER 11

Allis-Chalmers Corp said the company and its domestic affiliates filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.     The company said its business units outside the United States are not affected by the action.     Allis-Chalmers said the rapid agreement was essential for its restructuring plan, announced March 4.     However, the company said, "agreement could not be worked out within the short time frame available, and it was determined that the only practical alternative was to obtain court protection."     "This protection enables us to keep on operating our business in the ordinary course while affording us time to work out our obligations and complete our operational restructure strategy."     Allis-Chalmers said the proposal announced in March called for a complete restructuring of its obligations and capital structure as well as major structural changes in operations.     The company said funds generated by U.S. operations are currently inadequate to meet its U.S. obligations, primarily due to the carryover from discontinued and drastically downsized businesses.     It said funds produced by non-U.S. operations are not readily available to help meet those obligations, which include a health care program for retirees and debt service carried over from the larger Allis-Chalmers of earlier years.     Allis-Chalmers said its U.S. cash flow exceeded a negative 24 mln dlrs in 1986 and was a negative two mln dlrs in the first quarter of 1987. The company has financed a portion of its debt service and other obligations through sales of assets and has relied on short-term waivers from its lenders to prevent defaults on principal and interest payments.     Because of Allis-Chalmers' financial position, it said, new financing facilities were not available outside of Chapter 11, adding substantially all U.S. assets other than inventory are pledged as security for its debts.  Reuter &#3;

