 2-JUN-1987 15:33:36.87

U.K. BANKERS LAUD VOLCKER, UNSURE ABOUT GREENSPAN

U.K. Bankers for the most part lauded outgoing U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker for his achievements over the past eight years but expressed some uncertainty about economist Alan Greenspan, nominated by President Reagan to succeed him.     "One of Volcker's greatest achievements was the sense of continuity and stability he gave to the international markets," said Carlos Santistevan, executive director of Libra Bank Plc. However, it is uncertain how long it will take for Greenspan to fill that role and the degree to which he can do so, he said.     Greenspan heads his own financial consulting firm, Townesend, Greenspan Associates Inc and was Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers during the Ford Administration.     "He is a prominent and well known figure in the U.S." said David Lomax, Group Economics Adviser at National Westminster Bank Plc, who described Greenspan as an "orthodox Republican economist" who may be better suited to getting the U.S. Economy on track than Volcker.     But for the most part bankers in London are unfamiliar with Greenspan's views on domestic and international economics or the international debt crisis.     "I will be sad to see Volcker go. He is a central banker of good repute with a general interest in protecting the U.S. And international banking system," said Libra's Santistevan.     Volcker knows and understands the problems facing indebted countries, he said, adding that it is unlikely Greenspan is as familiar with the problem and the personalities involved.     For this reason he expects there will be little change in the Fed's approach to the debt crisis, even as U.S. Commercial banks take a harder line in dealing with the problem by adding billions of dollars in reserves against possible losses on third world debt.     Another senior banker who deals with the Latin American debt problem also doubted there would be much change post-Volcker, but for other reasons.     He said that despite U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt initiative which called for greater contributions by banks, governments and multilateral organization, government's have done little to try to improve the situation, leaving the bulk of the responsibility in the hands of the bankers.     Despite the Fed's independence from central government, he questioned how much impact Greenspan could have coming into the job so close to the next Presidential election.     News that Volcker would not seek a third term hit the financial markets hard.  The U.S. Dollar fell sharply on foreign exchange markets before reported concerted central bank intervention by the Fed and the Bundesbank helped it recover somewhat. Prices of Eurodollar denominated bonds fell about one point, while prices of U.S. Treasury bonds traded here lost more than one point.     But despite the disruption in the markets, Lloyds Bank Plc's Group Economic Adivser Christopher Johnson said the announcement was well-timed, given the recent rise in the dollar against the mark and yen.     In recent statements U.S. Officials have said the dollar has fallen far enough and at a White House briefing today announcing his nomination Greenspan said "there certainly is evidence" that the dollar had bottomed out.     However, many economists here believe that the recent rise in the dollar will be only temporary and that it will have to fall further before America's huge trade deficit begins to reverse.     "The dollar has further to fall, although it may take a few years" said Lloyds Bank's Johnson. He added that the important thing is that there is a soft landing.     Like other economists, Johnson is anxious to hear Greenspan's testify at the Congressional confirmation hearings.     "He has everything going for him but he must establish credibility. We have to hear his views on inflation and the outlook for interest rates," he said.     Some bankers criticized Volcker for taking too hard a stance in combating inflation in the late 1970's when his tightening in U.S. Monetary policy pushed interest rates to record levels.     "He tightened more than the Republicans wanted and only relaxed his stance when the Latin American debt crisis erupted (in 1982)," National Westminster's Lomax said.     Lomax said that Greenspan, if appointed, will inherit the agreements entered into by Volcker with other members of the Group of Five industrial nations on the dollar.     However, he said that the danger lies in dollar stability being maintained because of a monetary policy that is too tight. Too firm a monetary policy could send the U.S. Into recession, which would not be welcome by European counterparts, he said.  Reuter &#3;

