25-MAR-1987 16:13:38.55

UAL <UAL> SURROUNDED BY TAKEOVER SPECULATION

UAL Inc's diversification into hotels and rental cars may be its downfall, analysts said.     Digesting its acquisitions of hotels, Pan Am Corp's Pacific air routes, and Hertz rental cars, combined with stiff air fare competition has left the company with an undervalued stock price, analysts said.     The vulnerability of UAL's stock has fueled takeover speculation, as have reports that real estate magnate Donald Trump has bought a large amount of its stock.     Today, a UAL executive told Reuters its chairman Richard Ferris spoke with Trump last week. Trump said his interest in the stock was as an investment, but the executive said the company does not know how much Trump owns or whether he has any other plans.     UAL senior vice president Kurt Stocker said the company believes its diversification strategy will work since it can feed customers from one business to another. Several weeks ago, it announced the new name of Allegis, to be taken in May.     "The strategy that Dick Ferris was talking about a couple weeks ago when we announced the Allegis name is that the whole really ends up to be worth more than the sum of the parts. Unfortunately, some people haven't really come to this understanding," Stocker said.     But those same parts - Westin Hotels, Hertz rental cars, United Airlines and its reservation system - also has Wall Street calculating a wide range of breakup values from about 100 dlrs per share to 130 dlrs per share.     Analysts aren't so sure the strategy is going to work. They mention Transworld Corp, initially Trans World Airlines, as an example of an airline diversification gone wrong. Transworld Corp ended up spinning off its TWA airline. Transworld, now TW Services, is selling Hilton International to UAL.     "If you want to be negatively biased you say it's a stupid philosophy, and if you're United and you put billions of dlrs into other acquisitions, this is a good idea. There's not much evidence one way or the other," said Dean Witter analyst Mark Daugherty.     "In the short or long run, they all (UAL's businesses) make money and perform well," said Stocker. He said the stock price hasn't caught on since the strategy is relatively new.     Analysts say it's because earnings are relatively poor. Earnings last year were 25 cts per share. Louis Marckesano of Janney Montgomery predicts 1987 net of 3.50 dlrs per share.     "They're potential is enormous. I think their problem has been execution. The strike was the single biggest factor that set them back in 1985. Last year, the whole industry was involved in fare wars. They were hit harder by the fare wars than anyone else," said Marckesano.     Marckesano said United Airlines was particularly hurt by the fare wars because it shares a Denver hub with Texas Air Corp's price-slashing Continental Airlines.     Analysts said the same strategy which has contributed to an undervalued stock price may also result in a strong takeover defense. They said UAL paid a lot for some of its assets and that in itself may make the company undesireable.     "I think they have a fairly tough management that will at least be able to do battle with a potential shark and may well be able to defeat them. These guys aren't pushovers," said Steve Lewins, an airline analyst at Citicorp.     Lewins believes the company could ultimately boost the stock price to a level that would reflect its assets, but it will take time and improvements in earnings.     "If they put their nose to the grindstone, we're talking about years for anyone (in the airline industry)," he said. "The whole unwinding of the battle of Texas Air is going to take years, establishing the Pacific in competition with (NWA Inc <NWA>) Northwest is going to take until 1990," Lewins said.      UAL today rose 2-1/2 to 62-1/2 on heavy volume of 1.9 mln shares.  Reuter &#3;

