 3-APR-1987 11:33:42.18

ITALY SETS BANK CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENTS

The Bank of Italy issued details of new bank capital adequacy requirements due to come into force in June, in a central bank circular.     The Bank of Italy circular follows an interministerial committee decision last December to introduce minimum capital adequacy requirements for banks.     The requirements, which formalise criteria already in use, comprise a risk-asset ratio applicable to banking operations including foreign branches, and a gearing ratio which excludes business of foreign branches.      The risk-asset ratio measures solvency, defined as a bank's ability to meet all its liabilities through the realisation of its assets, while the second establishes the minimum capital a bank must hold relative to its size.     Specifically, total credits and off balance sheet items of domestic and foreign branches must not exceed an amount equivalent to 12.5 times the bank's capital, net of stakes held in Italian banks. The gearing ratio limits total financial assets of domestic branches to 22.5 times capital, net of stakes held in Italian banks.    The Bank of Italy said the requirements corresponded to a risk-asset ratio of eight pct and a gearing ratio of 4.4 pct.     For both ratios, the value of equity investments and stakes other than those in Italian banks will be deducted from the capital multiple.     The total credit risk of an individual bank will be calcluated by assigning specific weights to the various categories of financial assets and off balance sheet assets. The weighting will be based essentially on credit risk and will not take into account guarantees, other forms of risk transfer or potential losses linked to exchange or interest rates.     The definition of capital on which the ratios will be calculated comprises shareholders' equity and disclosed legal reserves plus "general provisions having the character of reserves." Own shares held in portfolio will be excluded.     The Bank of Italy said it would set more stringent individual ratios for those banks running greater risks regarding items such as the quality, mobility and concentration of assets, and to liquidity and management adequacy.     The new ratios will be applied to all banks operating in Italy.     Banks which are not in line with the requirements by June 1987 "must correct their position in the shortest time possible," the Bank of Italy said. A transition period would be allowed but would not be more than four years.     Italian branches of foreign banks will be exempted from the risk ratio when the parent banks are already subject to similar ratios but must comply with the gearing ratio.     The Bank of Italy said the introduction of capital ratios aimed to further enhance capital adequacy at a time of increasing competitiveness and was a further step in bringing Italy into line with supervisory norms in other countries.  REUTER &#3;

