 5-MAR-1987 10:58:14.28

BRITAIN SEEMS SET FOR NEW CASH ROW WITH EC

Britain appeared set for a new cash row with its European Community partners as evidence emerged that it could be much worse off as a result of new proposals to radically alter the way the EC is financed.     Analysis by officials and diplomats of proposals released yesterday by the EC's executive Commission showed their full impact, were they in force this year, would have left Britain worse off by 545 mln European Currency Units.     The proposals have to be agreed unanimously by member government after a debate expected to open next month.     The Commission said they were necessary to prevent the EC from sliding once again into bankruptcy, and has described the current financing system as unfair and unacceptable.     British dissatisfaction with the cost of EC membership has long been a source of friction, and diplomats said the proposals could well reopen the wound.     This was despite a proposed correction of Britain's budget contribution to reflect its inability to take full advantage of the EC's farm subsidies system because of the relatively small size of its agricultural sector.     Diplomats said although other nations such as Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands were certain to oppose elements in the system which could also substantially increase their own EC payments, the main opposition was expected from Britain.     Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has made clear in recent statements that she is not prepared to abandon the present system, under which Britain is refunded two-thirds of its net payments to the EC, unless a fairer system is devised.     The diplomats said Thatcher was unlikely to consider the proposed system as fair.     The Commission's proposals would base a state's contribution on its gross national product, which the commission says is a fairer measurement reflecting relative wealth.     The main element of the previous system was a share of value added tax collected in member states.     The mechanism to compensate Britain for its inability to take up a higher proportion of EC farm expenditure will have to be paid for by the other 11 states.     The Commission has also proposed to end repayments to all states of a service charge paid to them for collecting customs duties on behalf of the EC.  REUTER &#3;

