19-OCT-1987 11:11:12.80

U.S. CORPORATE FINANCE - COMPANIES ON SIDELINES

The recent sharp rise in U.S. interest rates sparked turmoil in the fixed-income markets, but underwriters said they doubt company treasurers will rush to borrow before rates increase further.     "Corporate treasurers will continue to issue new debt when they believe they are borrowing at an attractive rate," said an underwriter with a major Wall Street house.     Said another, "We will not see a flood of new offerings. Treasurers are reassessing the market. We will not see new issuance dry up either."     Still, the pace of corporate borrowing in the public finance market has slowed, according to a Reuter tabulation.     Last week, which was shortened by the Columbus Day holiday, saw issuance of 1.3 billion dlrs of new debt. That was down from the prior week's tally of slightly more than two billion dlrs of new debt.     In contrast, a year ago it was not unusual to see those amounts of new offerings in a single day as companies took advantage of the then decline in interest rates to refinance old, higher-cost debt or to expand operations via financings at low, attractive rates, underwriters noted.     "Companies will conduct financings that they believe are essential," said an underwriter with a medium-sized Wall Street firm. "But we will not see much more than that until the market stabilizes."     In the meantime, treasurers will probably prefer shorter term issues, analysts said. For instance, of last week's nine issues, only one had a maturity of more than 10 years.     The other offerings had maturities of two to seven years, with most clustered in the two to three year area, according to a Reuter tabulation. That is because single-digit interest rates were had last week only among two-year securities.     "If people think that interest rates will continue to head higher, then we could see treasurers rushing to market," said a trader with a medium-sized securities house.     "But if people think last week's sharp interest rate rise is a fluke, treasurers will sit back and wait for rates to decline before issuing new debt, hoping of course that they are not missing the boat by doing so," she added.     Another impediment to new issuance is the lukewarm reception to new issues by institutional and retail investors in recent weeks, traders pointed out. Many investors refrained from buying because they believed rate would rise further.     "We saw a lot of buying interest last week, but people are not yet willing to pull the trigger," a broker said. "They would rather wait and see if the recent rate increase can be sustained."     Conflicting forecasts on the likely direction of interest rates did not help, analysts said. For instance, Henry Kaufman, chief economist with Salomon Brothers Inc, said in his weekly "Comments on Credit" that the yields of U.S. Treasury bonds would probably rise further because the marketplace expects inflation to rise and the dollar to continue to decline.     In contrast, Standard and Poor's Corp said on Friday that prices of debt securities in the fixed-income markets would recover. The rating agency said neither the economy nor the dollar justify current high yields.     Meanwhile, the Chicago Board of Trade is slated to hold a press briefing on Tuesday in New York about its plans to list a futures contract based on a corporate bond index.     That follows last week's announcement by Commodity Exchange Inc, Comex, that it plans to list on October 29 a new futures contract based on the investment-grade corporate bond index of Moody's Investors Service Inc.  Reuter &#3;

