 1-JUN-1987 00:28:04.91

JAPAN VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE EARNS HIGH RETURNS

Companies offering variable life insurance policies, introduced in Japan in October, look set to report sparkling results when they report on fund performance later this month, fund managers at major insurance companies said.     The managers told Reuters some insurers showed variable life returns topping 50 pct on an annual basis in the five months to March 31. Industry sources said all 17 Japanese and U.S. Insurers offering variable life policies here have earned returns of more than 10 pct on their investments.     Returns on variable life policies, which are paid when policies are surrendered, depend on the performance of funds run by insurers.     Managers said strong results are due to the loading of funds into the buoyant Tokyo stock market and into convertible bonds and attractive short-term instruments such as large yen time deposits.     Japanese share prices rose 30 pct in absolute terms between November 1 and March 31. Key bond yields fell to around four pct from five pct in the same period.     "Variable life avails itself of the times and clients are likely to be attracted after the impressive results to be made public in early June," Ichirou Hayashi, general manager of Nippon Life Insurance Co Ltd's fund management office said.     The Finance Ministry does not allow disclosure of insurance company figures for the year ended March 31 until early June.     Nippon Life, the largest Japanese insurer, had about 50,000 investors in variable life by end-March while the three U.S. Firms which offer variable life here have a total of some 7,550 investors, fund managers said.     Equitable Life Insurance Co Ltd, American Life Insurance Co Ltd and Sony Prudential Life Insurance Co, which is a joint venture between Sony Corp and Prudential Life Assurance of the U.S., Are the three U.S. Insurers offering variable life here.    "Although (variable life) appears to be a short-term financial instrument with death benefit, its first priority is to raise as much cash value as it can over the long period," said Ichiro Kono, managing director and chief actuary of Sony Prudential. Variable life guarantees a fixed death benefit.     "Variables are also attractive to executives of companies who wish to receive them as retirement funds with options for settlement in annuities," Kono said.     Nippon Life's Hayashi said sales of variable life were shaping up well as interest rate consciousness grows.     Insurance managers said they expect variables to survive any credit market collapse since the funds should be able to react to interest rate fluctuations more quickly than huge general insurance accounts, assuming fund managers grow more sophisticated in global fund and risk management.     Japanese life insurers have cut dividends paid to holders of regular insurance by as much as 0.45 of a percentage point since April 1 due to declining domestic interest rates.     Fund managers said regular insurance funds are invested more conservatively with decisions based on long-term strategies. Major life insurers are expected to report huge exchange losses, estimated at over 2,000 billion yen, on foreign investment for 1986/87, they said.     "Asset mix is more of a concept for larger funds, not for our variables, especially after the huge currency losses made in the last fiscal year," Hayashi of Nippon Life said.     Industry analysts said shifts of funds ahead of tax changes due in October are helping boost the demand for variable life.     The government is expected to impose a 20 pct withholding tax on interest from certain instruments including single premium endowment insurance, much of which is maturing now, but variable life will be free of such a tax.     But Sony Prudential's Kono said, "A large shift of funds from single premium endowment to variable life is unlikely, because investors in the former are more short-term return-minded, while the latter doesn't guarantee short-term cash value."     Sony Prudential and Equitable Life each have three separate variable life accounts. Equitable's funds specialise in Japanese stocks, U.S. Stocks and money market instruments while Sony's covers bonds, stocks and general investment.     Japanese insurers have only one variable account each.     The Finance Ministry allowed sales of variable life endowment with terms over 10-years and whole life insurance from October 1 last year but allowed single premiums only on the latter.  REUTER &#3;

