17-MAR-1987 16:00:01.84

NO POLICY FOR OR AGAINST CERTIFICATES -- OMB

The U.S. Office of Management and Budget does not have a policy position one way or another on whether the Agriculture Department's commodity certificate program should be expanded or contracted, an OMB official said.     Speaking at the National Grain and Feed Association's annual convention, Ron Landis, chief of OMB's agricultural branch, said instead of an across the board policy for or against certificates, OMB has worked and will continue to work very closely with USDA in determining how many certificates should be sent out in each government farm payment.     "Recent evidence by the General Accounting Office and the Congressional Budget Office suggest that certificates can and do increase budget exposure," Landis said.     But Landis also noted that certificates have numerous beneficial impacts.     These benefits are helping maintain U.S. price competitiveness, freeing up storage space and saving the government storage and handling costs.     The major drawback to certificates, said Landis, is that they increase budget exposure relative to cash through use of the pik and roll marketing strategy.     In the pik and roll strategy, a farmer puts his grain under loan, redeems it with certificates, then keeps the difference between the price he paid for certificates and the county loan rate.     However, if the benefits of certificates outweigh the added costs, OMB officials said they will support continuation of the program.     "OMB says certificates have a very positive effect on the market, but the question is do those positive benefits outweigh the added costs. If they do, then the certificate program is good," an OMB official told Reuters.     Landis calculated that the redemption of each certificate worth 1,500 bushels results in 176 dlrs in storage savings for wheat farmers, 270 dlrs for corn farmers and 92 dlrs for soybean farmers. The pik and roll strategy represents a benefit of about 35 cents per bushel per farmer, he said.     But Landis also noted that recent studies by CBO suggest that an additional one billion dlrs of certificates released to the market could result in outlays of 1.15 dlrs in cash for every dlr released in certificates.     OMB is concerned that too many certificates released onto the market could cause prices to drop too low and government costs to increase too much.     But Landis said OMB has not determined what amount of certificates would be excessive.  Reuter &#3;

