16-MAR-1987 04:58:31.59

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - DUTCH SHARE PROSPECTS MIXED

While world exchanges revel in a continuing securities boom, the Dutch stockmarket remains lacklustre despite a series of largely positive annual corporate results and signs of a more stable dollar, analysts said.     Prices and turnover on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange have sprung back from lows reached when the dollar dipped below the two guilder mark in January. But market analysts say only lower interest rates or a further rise in the dollar, now trading at around 2.09 guilders, could keep the momentum going.     "Between end-1982 and end-1986 Dutch stocks rose by around 150 pct, but the dollar's sharp fall last year put the brake on the bull market," said Philip Menco, analyst with bank CLN Oyens en van Eeghen.     The dollar's current level compares with an average in 1986 of 2.45 guilders, and 3.35 in 1985, official figures show.     But Arjen Los, analyst with Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson, sees room for some optimism,    "The market is exaggerating the whole dollar affair. We've seen the bottom of its decline. But what is lacking is a stimulus on the interest rate front," he said.     Analysts said they expected little impact from provincial elections on Wednesday as the government's position was secure.     "The scope for price rises in Dutch shares is narrow, given the limited room for lower interest rates," said Los, adding the Dutch market can currently only dream of returns of around 15 pct seen in rising markets elsewhere in Europe.     "When the dollar slumped in the second half of 1986, U.S. And U.K investors were heavy sellers of Dutch stock. They made an enormous currency gain," Menco said.     Finance Ministry figures show foreign investment in Dutch stock last year fell by nearly half to 4.2 billion guilders.     Los envisaged no significant revival of foreign interest in the Dutch market. He saw the large, liquid Dutch pension funds pursuing a more aggressive portfolio management policy while continuing to invest in markets with weaker currencies.     Outflows of non-bank Dutch capital totalled a record 21.4 billion guilders last year, 12.3 billion of which stemmed from securities transactions.     "Dutch institutions have been rallying to buoyant foreign markets, but this season's results could coax some of them back to the relatively underpriced Dutch market," Koos Ten Have of Staal Bankiers said.     Ten Have said Dutch price/earnings ratios based on forecasts of 1987 results were broadly unchanged compared with 1986. With an average ratio of 10, they were still attractively lower than shares of other exchanges, he added.     He said the reliability of the strong guilder was a further factor favouring Dutch stock investments.     Senior bank economists said this week's official economic forecast by the CPB planning agency painted a gloomy picture of the Dutch economy but this would not shake investor confidence in the Dutch business sector. The Dutch economy was doing relatively well compared with other nations, they added.     Analysts say most companies have fulfilled expectations, while some firms, particularly in food and publishing, surprised the market with continued solid profit growth despite major dollar and sterling investments.     Unexpectedly positive results from companies like Unilever Plc-NV <UN.AS>, NV Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken <PGLO.AS> and Heineken NV <HEIN.AS> were balanced by poor performances by the three banks, which achieved higher profits partly by reducing their risk provisions. Analysts still have doubts about the insurance sector, and many companies stressed the negative impact of lower currencies on their guilder earnings in 1986.     Food and publishing are seen as major growth areas, despite the fact many of these companies have significant activities in the U.K and U.S.     Food chain Ahold NV <AHLN.AS> reported an 8.1 pct increase in net 1986 profit but said it did not see profits growing in 1987 due to the uncertainty of the dollar.     Turnover declined by 5.7 pct to 11.4 billion guilders. About 1.5 billion guilders of this decline was due to the lower dollar and one third of turnover volume was achieved in the U.S.     "Ahold is too cautious over the dollar," Los said. "As long as such companies continue to maintain their U.S. Activities and fund their expansion there, the negative influence is purely an accounting effect."     Koninklijke Wessanen NV <WESS.AS> and Heineken also managed handsome profit increases of 16.6 and 7.5 pct respectively, while blaming disappointing turnover in their substantial overseas activities on the lower dollar.     Initial publishing results indicate a bumper year for shares in this sector and ensure firm interest despite higher price/earnings ratios, ranging from 12 to 14. REUTER &#3;

