20-MAR-1987 11:35:34.40

FDA OKAYS BURROUGHS WELLCOME AZT AS AIDS TREATMENT

The Food and Drug Administration has approved Burroughs Wellcome Co's AZT as a treatment to help certain AIDS patients, including those with advanced-AIDS related complex.     The drug is the first approved treatment for AIDS in the U.S. AZT or azidothymidine will be marketed as Retrovir by the company, the U.S. arm of Britain's <Wellcome PLC>.     Because of its limited supply, the FDA said the drug will be restricted initially to those patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex with severely depressed immunity or a history of Pnumocystis carinii, pneumonia.     "Today's approval marks an important step but by no means a final victory against our ongoing war against AIDS," said Dr Robert E. Windom, assistant secretary for health at the Public Health Service.     He noted that available clinical data were sufficient for approving the use of Retrovir only for certain indications and not for all AIDS associated conditions.     Nevertheless, Windom said today's action means that significant medical relief will be available to thousands of those afflicted with the disease.     "Retrovir is not a cure but it has demonstrated ability to improve the short-term survival of AIDS patients with recently diagnosed PCP (Pneumomystis carinii pneumonia) and certain patients with advanced ARC (AIDS-related complex)," said Windom.     Advanced AIDS related complex is a condition that frequently precedes and develops within a short time into full-scale acquired immune deficiency syndrome.     As of March 16, there were 32,825 AIDS cases reported nationwide, with more than 16,000 deaths.     The Public Health Agency said advanced ARC patients have symptoms that include weight loss, persistent fever and diarrhea, and less severe infections such as oral thrush and herpes infections.     The federal agency said that AIDS patients who are expected to qualify for retrovir treatment are those who have serious opportunistic infections associated with AIDS and those with advanced AIDS related complex.     It is estimated that about two to three times as many Americans may suffer from advanced ARC as from AIDS.     Burroughs Wellcome, of Research Triangle Park, N.C., has scheduled a press conference for Monday in New York where it will discuss what patients will quality for treatment. The company has said that a year's treatment with the drug would cost 8,000 dlrs to 10,000 dlrs.     Burroughs has also said that it has adequate supplies of the drug for the most seriously ill patients, and will have supplies for a minimum of 30,000 patients and probably more by the end of the year.     Retrovir's approval was expected as a panel of expert medical advisers to the FDA recommended in January that the drug be licensed for sale even though there were gaps in understanding the drug's effectiveness.     The panel said the drug could prolong the lives of certain AIDS patients but it also caused severe side effects such as anemia and other blood problems.     Due to the extraordinary situation surrounding AIDS, a fatal disease reaching what some health officials say is epidemic proportions, Windom said the FDA has moved in near record time--four months--to approve the drug.     AZT, derived from herring sperm, was created in the 1960s by Jerome P. Horwitz of the Michigan Cancer Foundation as an anticancer agent.     Meanwhile in London, dealers said Wellcome shares rose to 497p in response, up from last night's close of 457p.     But pharmaceutical analyst Mark Clark of Barclays de Zoete Wedd said the new drug's share of the market may not be as a high as expected since it had very severe side effects.     "It is not a cure and the side effects are so bad it is unlikely that someone could support a full year's treatment," he said. "There are also a whole host of other drugs likely to come onto the market quite soon."     Last week the drug was approved for marketing in the U.K.  Reuter &#3;

