11-APR-1987 01:23:09.83

COR TEXACO <TX> SAYS IT CAN'T POST MORE THAN 1 BILLION

Texaco Inc, in documents filed with a Texas state appeals court, said a ruling forcing it to post a bond of more than one billion dlrs as security for a 10.53 billion dlr judgment would halt its credit agreements and force the company into bankruptcy.     A hearing is scheduled Monday on Texaco's motion to reduce the amount of bond required by Texas state law to secure a 1985 judgment in favour of Pennzoil Co <PZL> in a dispute over the acquisition of Getty Oil.     Pennzoil today said it proposed to the court that Texaco secure its bond with assets valued at about 50 pct of the bond.     It said this would not force Texaco into bankruptcy.     Richard Brinkman, Texaco's chief financial officer, said in a newly filed affidavit that the company was willing to use its 65 mln shares of <Texaco Canada Inc> as collateral for a letter of credit or loan to provide security to Pennzoil.     The Canadian unit's stock, valued at about 1.8 billion dlrs, was returned to Texaco earlier this week after being held as security by a federal district court in New York while Texaco awaited a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court. Brinkman estimated that Texaco could borrow no more than one billion dlrs using its Canadian subsidiary stock as collateral for a loan.     Texaco, he said, was unwilling to pledge the stock of its other foreign subsidiary corporations as security because the stock is not widely traded and its market value was unclear.     Brinkman also said the company had already lost access to a four billion dlr revolving credit line since the initial jury verdict against Texaco.     Texaco had been able to raise working capital by selling about 700 mln dlrs in receivables to a group of banks since the judgment, he said. The banks earlier this week notified Texaco that they would not purchase any additional receivables because of the company's uncertain status, Brinkman said.     Four other credit agreements for 1.15 billion dlrs would also be cut off if a judgment of more than four billion dlrs is outstanding against the company and it is unable to obtain a stay, Brinkman said.     "Since the Supreme Court decision on April 6, many other suppliers to Texaco have notified Texaco that their dealings with it are under review and a number have demanded cash payment or terminated their dealings with Texaco," he said.     The Supreme Court overturned a lower federal court decision to cut Texaco's bond to one billion dlrs, saying the issue should first be considered in Texas courts.     In a separate affidavit, <Morgan Stanley & Co> Managing Director Donald Brennan also said Texaco would be forced into bankruptcy if the company were forced to provide Pennzoil with security exceeding one billion dlrs.  REUTER &#3;

