25-MAR-1987 19:01:30.71

DREXEL SAYS BUSINESS STRONG DESPITE TRADE PROBE

Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc said Wednesday its business is booming, despite its inability to distance itself from the insider trading scandal that has spread rumors and doubts through Wall Street.     "For a company that's supposed to be under siege, we are doing extremely well. We are exceedingly profitable," a spokesman for the firm told Reuters.     The rumors that have swirled around Drexel, more than any other broker, have involved concerns that its business will be threatened by the Federal probe, say Wall Street sources. The firm has long been at the leading edge of the mergers business and had ties to now-disgraced speculator Ivan Boesky.     In the latest chapter of the story, Drexel said that some commodities firms have begun to limit the amount of business they will do with the firm, citing credit risks. Drexel has long been a powerful competitor in precious metals markets.     But Drexel spokesman Steve Anredder told Reuters that Drexel's overall business is proceeding normally and the first-quarter profit "could be the strongest of anybody on Wall Street."     "I wouldn't say we're not feeling any effect (from the trading probes)," he said. "But we're doing extremely well."     The firm was among the first to be subpoenaed in the government's wide-ranging probe of illegal trading involving the use of confidential company information on Wall Street.     Believed to be under particular scrutiny was Drexel's "junk bond" operation -- the issuance of high-risk speculative debt that it pioneered for financing corporate takeovers.     "We have done nothing wrong," said the Drexel spokesman. "After a thorough investigation, we have found no evidence of any wrongdoing by the firm or anyone within the firm."     The spokesman said that in the aftermath of the Boesky arrest, Drexel had not been charged. Nor had any individual at the firm been charged with illegal acts while employed by Drexel. One of its top merger specialists, Martin Siegel, was charged in connection with a former job.     Still, more than any other firm on Wall Street, Drexel has suffered the consequences of the insider trading probe. To begin with, there have been a series of brief shocks in the junk bond market, in nervousness linked to rumors that Drexel might be in trouble.     At one point, Drexel said Wednesday, a large Midwest bank refused to allow Drexel-issued bonds as collateral on credit lines. Two weeks ago, the restriction was withdrawn, it said.     The company also was notified last month that the outside insurer of Drexel's individual brokerage accounts had decided not to renew coverage. Drexel has set up its own subsidiary handling part of the insurance. American International Group and a group of British underwriters have handled the rest.     Drexel also appears to have lost ground to others in the mergers and acquisition business recently, market sources said. However, Anredder said that there was no sign that Drexel had lost any customers at all owing to the insider trading cases. But in citing results for the quarter, the company points mostly to other areas of success.     Corporate financings have totaled 8 billion dlrs, including 3 billion dlrs in new junk bonds in the January-March period, Drexel said. Drexel maintains the lion's share of this lucrative business, trade sources noted.     The market for junk bonds, although jittery, "has rallied back with a vengeance," Anredder said.     Although they see new competition in the junk bond arena, market sources concur that Drexel remains king of the hill.     While some of the leading Wall Street firms were limiting head-to-head dealings with Drexel in the commodity markets  based on worries over the credit of the company, the Drexel spokesman called this "ridiculous."  Reuter &#3;

