16-MAR-1987 10:45:39.20

SWISS OPTIONS, FUTURES EXCHANGE PLANNED FOR 1988

Preparations for the launch of a Swiss options and futures exchange, billed as the first completely electronic market of its kind, are at an advanced stage, according to members of the project team.     The Swiss Options and Financial Futures Exchange (Soffex) is a new departure in that it will introduce an additional range of financial instruments and electronic trading methods to the traditionally conservative Swiss market.     There will be no physical exchange floor and both trading and clearing systems will be completely automated.     The new market, due to start operating in January 1988, follows a series of innovations by the bourses in Zurich, Basle and Geneva aimed at preventing loss of business in the face of keen competition from London and Frankfurt.     These innovations included the introduction last October of continuous trading in major shares, plans to establish a single continuously updated Swiss share index from next month to supplement the various indices produced by the major banks at the close of business, and experiments in electronic trade.     Banks themselves last year took the initiative of launching covered warrants on shares of other Swiss companies.     "If Switzerland wants to maintain and expand its international prominence in portfolio management, our bankers and fund managers must have the same modern instruments at their disposal as their competitors," says Soffex president Rudolf Mueller, a director of Union Bank of Switzerland.     The computer terminals on which business will be conducted will be confined to Switzerland. It is still unclear how many Swiss-based institutions will seek membership of the exchange.     Formal applications are not due until next month but a preliminary survey completed by the Soffex project team this week showed strong interest in membership.     "The response from both Swiss and foreign institutions all over the country has been very encouraging," says Philippe Bollag of the project team.     Hans Kaufmann, who follows Swiss equities for Bank Julius Baer, says a regulated traded options exchange should boost foreign interest in Swiss shares and possibly increase bourse turnover generally.     The possibility of protecting portfolios by hedging should attract Swiss institutional investors, Kaufmann added.     Soffex is a private company set up by the five major Swiss banks and the bourses of Zurich, Geneva and Basle.     Trading will initially be limited to stock options on 10 to 15 leading Swiss bearer shares. An options contract on the new Swiss share index should follow within six months but trading in financial futures will be delayed until an unspecified future date. Options on foreign shares may also be added later.     Participants will be either brokers or dealers, operating in the market through computer terminals in their own offices. Trading must be conducted exclusively through the exchange.     Exchange membership is open to banks, traders and brokerage firms with an office in Switzerland, while clearing members must be recognised as banks under Swiss law.     The trading system, based on Digital Equipment Corp software and hardware, provides display of best bid and offer prices, matches orders electronically, allows anonymous negotiation of block orders and maintains member order books.     An "interest" facility, aimed at helping participants to gauge the market mood, shows the number of users watching a particular instrument at any time. Most of the electronic clearing functions will be carried out overnight.     Each contract will cover only five shares instead of the 100 shares normally traded on existing options and futures markets in the United States, London, Amsterdam and Stockholm.     This reflects the fact that Swiss shares often cost thousands of francs. Bearer shares in F. Hoffmann-La Roche und Co AG, likely to be on the Soffex opening list, were quoted this week at 209,000 francs each.     Contracts will initally be offered for the three end-months following the trading date plus the subsequent January, April, July or October end-months. Longer maturities may be added in future if market liquidity permits.     Detailed provisions have still to be worked out in areas such as margin requirements, position limits, the supervisory and regulatory functions of the exchange and brokerage fees.     Banks polled by Reuters in a random survey were enthusiastic about Soffex but reticent about the level of their own involvement and about the exchange's prospects for success.     "We're moving into completely new surroundings and it will require a change in psychology," said a securities dealer at a major Swiss bank. "We in Switzerland are not used to sitting all day at a screen where nobody shouts at you."     Moving into traded options will also require considerable investment in equipment and staff by participants. Completely new dealing and back-office skills will have to be acquired and some banks are already sending staff abroad for training.  Reuter &#3;

