 5-MAR-1987 11:08:35.98

FINNISH TAXATION MAJOR ISSUE IN ELECTION CAMPAIGN

Personal taxation has emerged as the major economic issue in Finnish general elections later this month, and Conservative gains could mark a shift towards indirect taxation and accelerate moves towards more market-oriented banking practices, economists say.     Opinion polls indicate the Conservative Party, Finland's second largest, may gain enough clout after the elections to join a coalition government which is still likely to be dominated by the Social Democrats of Prime Minister Kalevi Sorsa.     But the economists point out that Conservative economic policies differ only slightly from the governments', and that trade with the Soviet Union will not be affected.     Helsinki bankers said a new government, including the Conservatives for the first time in 20 years, could bring about a shift from direct to indirect taxation.     The present coalition of Social democrats and Centrists has embarked on a tax reform programme to cut marginal taxation, which is up to 75 pct in the highest income scales. The opposition has also called for reforms, but they differ over how to regain lost state revenues.     One Conservative favoured possibility is abolishing tax exemption on interest from bank deposits and government bonds.     Hannu Halttunen, of Helsinki bank Kansallis-Osake-Pankki (KOP), told Reuters "We want to be more free in setting interest rates and in creating different deposits to suit the individual investors. If tax on interest is introduced, then we prefer a system with taxation of real interest gains."     Under present laws, bank customers are exempted from tax on interest when banks jointly set interest rates. Bankers said this had encouraged cartel-style banking and was hindering tougher inter-bank competition.     A London-based Nordic banking expert said liberalisation was too strong a word to use in a Finnish context, but a Conservative presence could dislodge traditional practices.     "It would probably result in new practices that have been seen elsewhere for a few years growing rather more quickly in Finland," he said, in a reference to money market instruments.     All parties, especially the Conservatives, have been careful to avoid making Finnish-Soviet trade an election issue. Moscow is Finland's largest trading partner. Until a few years ago the Conservative Party was seen as anti-communist, but has now moderated its stance, political analysts say.     Trade between Helsinki and Moscow is based on a barter system, and is balanced under long-term accords.     In January the two countries signed a 1987 agreement worth 30 billion markka, but trade in the past two years has been declining due to the fall in the price of crude oil, which accounts for 80 pct of Finnish imports from the Soviet Union.     The bankers said taxation had become the major economic theme of the campaign because there were few other issues.     Inflation was 3.4 pct in 1986, compared with 5.9 pct in 1985, and unemployment has increased slightly from 6.1 pct of the workforce in 1985 to last year's levels of 6.7 pct.     The Social democrats in 1986 doubled the country's foreign trade surplus compared with 1985, from 2.50 billion markka to 5.04 billion markka.     Opinion polls say Sorsa's Social Democrats will remain the largest party in the 200-seat Parliament, with some 26 pct of the vote. They currently hold 57 seats.     The Centre Party, the other major coalition partner, is also expected to hold on to its 37 seats.     But increased Conservative support and a decline for the Communists could make force Sorsa to allow the Conservatives into government. They currently hold 44 seats.  REUTER &#3;

