29-JUN-1987 09:41:12.77

RYZHKOV CALLS FOR SOVIET ECONOMIC REFORMS

Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov described the Soviet Union's economic management system as obsolete and called on the Supreme Soviet, the nominal parliament, to adopt a draft law on major economic reform.     In a speech to the 1,500 member body, Ryzhkov said excessive central control by Moscow-based ministries and wasteful use of resources had led to a situation where 13 pct of Soviet industrial enterprises were making a loss in 1986.     He said the public faced acute food and housing problems and a "shadow economy" was growing because the state could not meet demand.     He added that the USSR had failed to keep up with the technology revolution.     "The methods of the past system of economic management have become obsolete," Ryzhkov declared. "The need for change is evident and urgent."     Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who set the tone last week with a frank speech on the economy, was present during the speech.     The legislation outlined by Ryzhkov, formally called the draft law on state enterprises, is expected to be approved by the Supreme Soviet, to take effect next January 1.     Under the law, all enterprises are to become financially self-supporting by taking charge of income and outlay, with wages tied to profit in order to increase worker incentive.     Firms will compete for orders from the state, which are due to decline as direct contracts between enterprises expand.     Ryzhkov said the state planning agency, Gosplan, would be restructured to set national economic priorities instead of administering factories directly through five year plans.     "We need a fundamentally new approach to yearly planning," he added, saying annual central plans would be abandoned from 1991 and enterprises charged with developing their own plans.      He said scientific research should be integrated closely with industry to make up a technology gap with the West and enterprises should use market research to meet consumer demand.     Ryzhkov blamed the state supply body, Gossnab, for allowing shortages to occur. He said Gossnab was hoarding 27 billion roubles worth of raw materials and semi-finished products of enterprises. He said Gossnab should help expand wholesale trade.     Ryzhkov said improved economic management of consumer goods and services was required to stem increasing speculation and the growth of the black market economy. He called for a 10 fold increase in the number of cooperatives to help in this field.     He said the price system needed radical revision to accurately reflect supply and demand, with the state setting prices only for "products of national importance" in changes to be fully in place by the next five year plan beginning in 1991.     The practice of using credit to cover losses must also stop. Outstanding debts to the state had reached 40 billion roubles.     He said there were proposals to replace the "cumbersome" banking system with six new banks -- a state bank and banks for foreign economic relations, agro-industry, construction, housing and commercial services, and credit.     Ryzhkov said guarantees should be built into the law to prevent "the distortion of the rights of enterprises." But non-profitable enterprises would be declared bankrupt if efforts to make them self-supporting failed.     Bemoaning the "economic illiteracy" of many managers, he called for the retraining of economic personnel.     Ryzhkov said an immense amount of work lay ahead and "doing it on the go" would be difficult, but added, "We do not have time to stop and ponder."     He said the changes should "give a new image to socialism."  REUTER &#3;

