27-MAR-1987 13:29:49.68&#5;&#5;&#5;F RM A

CME PROPOSES LIMITS ON BROKER TRADING RINGS

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has proposed stringent limits on the portion of futures trading that can be conducted between "trading rings," or  affiliated groups of floor brokers, according to a CME spokesman.     Violators would be subject to fines of as much as 50,000 dlrs, the exchange said in a letter distributed to its members earlier this week.     The proposal is one of the reforms the exchange's Board of Governors suggested to curb practices that have come under fire for unfairly limiting competition on the floor. Local traders claim that trading among broker "rings" violates the open-outcry system prevailing in the futures markets.     Limits on ring trading would be applied floor-wide under the proposal. The other reforms, which address dual trading, would apply only to the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures pit.     A debate over dual trading, the practice of trading for one's own account and filling customer orders, has arisen because many traders believe it can create a climate for trading abuses, especially in the extremely volatile stock index futures pit.     Adoption of the Board of Governors' reforms hinges on an April 13 vote of CME members on a membership petition, signed by several hundred members in February, that would bar all dual trading at the exchange.     Defeat of the petition is likely, according to a floor broker contacted by Reuters, who also said he welcomed the limits on the "ring" traders. If members reject the petition, that would open up the way for the Board of Governors' reforms.     CME President William Brodsky said the need to curb broker group trading has grown "as the groups have gotten larger." "A lot of the individuals were losing business because they were faced with a large-scale competition. The Board began studying the problem about six months ago.     Under the proposed reforms, members of a broker rings -- defined as brokers who share brokerage fees, revenues, expenses, a deck of customer orders or employee salary expenses -- would be barred from trading more than 15 pct of their personal trades with each other. Those found in violation would be subject to fines of up to 50,000 dlrs.     Broker ring members would also be prohibited from trading more than 25 pct of customer orders with each other. Fines of up to 10,000 dlrs would be levied on violators.     More stringent limits were proposed on individual trading than customer orders because "we don't want to negatively impact customer orders," Brodsky said. "On the other hand, the need to do a personal order is very different."     Broker associations would also be limited to having no more than one member serving on an exchange disciplinary or pit committee.  Reuter &#3;

