13-APR-1987 15:37:38.69

TALKS FAIL TO HEAD OFF CHIP SHOWDOWN WITH JAPAN

Talks between the United States and Japan on alleged Japanese dumping of computer microchips have failed to head off U.S. imposition of retaliatory tariffs, two senior White House officials said.     President Reagan's chief of staff, Howard Baker told reporters here that he saw no developments that that would cause the president to back away from his plan to issue a proclamation on Friday slapping 100 per cent tariffs on a range of Japanese electronic products.     "I assume that there will be a proclamation on Friday," Baker said.     Reagan's National Security Adviser, Frank Carlucci added, "It looks like a very difficult situation at this point."     Carlucci said that evidence of Japanese "dumping" of microchips had been "fairly conclusive." The alleged dumping -- selling abroad at below the cost of manufacture -- is said to have undercut the technologically important U.S. microchip industry.     Carlucci also said that although Japanese officials had presented statistics designed to show that Japan was opening its markets to American producers of microchips, "our statistics do not confirm this."     "Indeed, they tend to go in the other direction,"Carlucci said.     President Reagan announced on March 27 that he planned to raise tariffs on as much as 300 mln dlrs in Japanese exports to the United States.     He accused Japan of failing to enforce major provisions of a September 1986 agreement on preventing microchip dumping and providing American industry with fair trade opportunities.     He said he would be prepared to lift the sanctions when Japan took corrective action on these two issues.     The dispute has soured U.S.-Jpanese relations as Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone prepares to visit Washington at the end of the month for talks with Reagan.     Last Friday Reagan, answering questions following a speech to the Los Angeles World Affairs Council, said Nakasone had endangered his political standing at home because of his willingess to try to eliminate trade barriers against U.S. goods.     He said he was looking forward to his talks with Nakasone and "he has been most helpful."     Today Reagan was vacationing at his ranch near here.  Reuter &#3;

