 2-JUN-1987 16:18:43.94

DEUTSCHE BANK SAYS NO SUPPORT FOR VW MANAGEMENT

West Germany's biggest bank said it would withhold support from Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> management at next month's annual meeting because of the VW currency scandal.     Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> said it would abstain in votes exonerating VW management and the supervisory board, which represents shareholders and employees, unless an auditor's report on the currency scandal is published before the July 2 annual meeting and either clearly absolves or blames the management and board.     Several shareholder groups have said they will vote against management at what promises to be a stormy annual meeting. If a majority of shareholders back these groups, the top management of Europe's biggest carmaker could be dismissed.     Deutsche said it expected the results of the auditor's report on the currency fraud, which cost VW some 260 mln dlrs, to be published before the annual meeting.     But in a letter to Deutsche customers depositing their VW shares at the bank, Deutsche wrote: "Without knowledge of these results, we do not think we are in a position to make you a suggestion for or against exoneration of the management board and supervisory board."     "Unless you give us instructions to the contrary, we will abstain with your shares ... but we reserve the right to vote for or against exoneration of the management board and supervisory board, if this seems in your interest in line with the results of the auditor's report," it added.     A strong shareholder vote against the management would empower the supervisory board to dismiss the management if it chooses, though such a move would not be mandatory.     A member of the supervisory board who does not receive exoneration at an annual meeting may have to step down.     An abstention or no-vote by banks on behalf of customers against management would in itself be a vote of no confidence.     German banks traditionally use their huge proxy votes at annual meetings to support the management of the company, in which they are often represented on the supervisory board.     VW management board chairman Carl Hahn said in April that 1986 profits had been hit by the scandal, in which documents relating to currency arbitrage were allegedly faked, but profits for 1987 would not be affected.     Following the scandal, finance director Rolf Selowsky resigned, and former chief dealer Bobby Junger was arrested.     Deutsche represents 8-10 pct of VW's share capital, the sources said, and F. Wilhelm Christians, one of the bank's two management board spokesmen (chief executives) is on the VW supervisory board.     Banking sources said Deutsche was furious with VW after the bank led an international placement of VW shares from the company's record rights issue last September.     Less than two months later VW announced a sharp fall in interim profits, bashing its share price and severely denting confidence in the German share market generally.     A spokesman for the Savings Bank Association said that German savings banks would vote not to discharge Selowsky, and depending on whether the auditor's report was published would abstain on the vote for other management board members.     The federal government and the state of Lower Saxony together have 40 pct of VW shareholders' votes. It is still unclear how they will vote. Associations representing small shareholders will also ensure the annual meeting is heated.     The Protective Association for Securities Ownership has said it will vote against the entire management board, and the Protective Society for Small Shareholders will also vote against the supervisory board.     A spokeswoman for Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft AG, the auditors commissioned by VW in March to investigate the scandal, declined to comment when its report would be issued.  Reuter &#3;

