 8-APR-1987 04:21:46.71

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EXCESS MONEY HURTS THAI BANKS

Thailand's improving economy may have helped its trade and finance position but it has also created major problems for local banks, Thai and foreign bankers said.     They said a 900 mln dlr saving from cheaper imported oil and 19.7 pct export growth last year contributed to the country's first current account surplus in 20 years.     But the bright picture, together with a government program to help farmers cope with depressed commodity prices, coincides with sluggish investment by a private sector still feeling the lingering effects of the 1984-86 recession.     Thai banks have had growing surplus funds and difficulties finding borrowers since the third quarter of 1986.     Kunthon Narkprom, head of the budget and planning division of Thai Farmers Bank Ltd, estimated excess liquidity in banks peaked last month at 60 billion baht, three times what he considered normal. Bank of Thailand figures show total deposits in 1986 grew 12.7 pct to 627.7 billion baht, while lending rose only 3.4 pct to 548.6 billion.     The lending/deposit ratio, which measures bank loans as a percentage of deposits, fell to 86.6 pct last month, the lowest since the 1970s, after averaging 96.6 pct in 1985.     Thai banks have cut lending and deposit rates a record six times since January 1986, during which time the average minimum loan rate fell to 11.5 pct from 15.5 and the gross one-year fixed deposit rate to 7.25 pct from 11.     Five banks announced last week they would cut their maximum lending rates to small borrowers by one percentage point to 14 pct.     Kunthon of Thai Farmers estimated banks now have a combined 80 billion baht unused overdraft line as many small and medium-size companies delay borrowing in anticipation of more cuts in interest rates.     The record liquidity has seriously hurt the profits of banks, which have been forced to invest idle funds in low-yield government securities.     Kunthon said the banks hold four to 10 billion baht in short-term government bonds bought through the Bank of Thailand's bond repurchase facility, double the normal amount.     Thailand's 16 local commercial banks registered one of their worst years in 1986, with overall profits falling over 30 pct after a 14 pct decline in 1985.     Kunthon said profits should increase 10 pct this year as the banks adjust to the new interest rate structure.     Olarn Chaipravat, senior executive vice president of Siam Commercial Bank Ltd, told reporters last week the liquidity problem stems partly from the fact most loan demands come from businesses seeking funds for small, labour-intensive projects.     He said there are few large, capital-intensive projects and many borrowers go offshore to meet their requirements.     Somboon Chinsavananond, Thai Farmers' fund management executive, said liquidity has been aggravated by the central bank's policy of fixing a stable baht-dollar exchange rate which permits Thai companies to import dollar-denominated funds with a minimal risk of currency exchange losses.     He said underlying bearishness towards the U.S. Dollar has encouraged foreign borrowers who hope to pay less on loan principal when their loans mature.     Thai bankers said central bank governor Kamchorn Sathirakul last month rejected a request to increase a 10 pct withholding tax on interest on foreign loans, a measure they said would reduce foreign borrowings. The governor replied the bankers should extend more loans to rural areas instead.     Bankers said some Thai banks have offered credit-worthy clients loans at near money market rates of seven to eight pct in a bid to compete with foreign funds.     A market analyst at Siam Commercial Bank said bank lending at such rates amount to about 15 pct of all loans extended by the industry.     A foreign banker, who requested anonymity, said the "segmented market approach" used by Thai banks for setting different lending rates has caused dislocation of funds in the financial sector, eroded bank profits and prevented banks from taking a more logical move of further cutting interest rates.     He said the liquidity problem gives the Bank of Thailand a perfect opportunity to assert more control on the Thai money market.     The Bank of Thailand is taking "a step in the right direction" by planning to float three billion baht in bonds to mop up part of the surplus, he said, but he added the bank has been lax in using its bond repurchase window as a tool to absorb or inject liquidity into the market.     William Wu, head of the Treasury Unit of Chase Manhattan Bank N.A., Said the money market lacks the instruments to absorb liquidity and avoid sharp interest rate fluctuations.     He said the liquidity has fuelled the stock market's strongest rally in seven years and Thailand should seize the opportunity to develop the corporate bond market.  REUTER &#3;

