 9-APR-1987 19:36:34.99

U.S. THRIFT OFFICIAL URGES MORE LENDER INSURANCE

The Administration's 15 billion dlr plan to recapitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation is needed to ensure the future profitablity of the U.S. thrift industry, according to a top industry regulator.     "Today thrifts in overwhelming numbers are profitable,"  Shannon Fairbanks, executive chief of staff of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board told a thrift industry conference.     "But every thrift is paying a market tax for the inabliity of regulators to deal with problems carried forward from the past," she said, referring to the premium that thrifts have to pay in the marketplace to entice deposits away from banks.     "The industry wants to see a five billion dlr plan passed now, and then to wait and see what happens," Fairbanks said. "They're saying, 'we don't want to pay more right away.' The argument is that it's a drain on the industry."     "But the dollars paid out can be recaptured in the reduction in the market tax differential," she said. "The cost of recapitalization to the industry would be recaptured in bottom line profitability."     Fairbanks said that the public's confidence in thrift instititutions eroded with the financial difficulties of savings and loan associations in Ohio and Maryland in 1985.     As thrift institutions in economically distressed areas like Texas have continued to fall on hard times, this has increased depositors' demand for a higher premium on deposits in savings and loans compared with premiums paid on deposits in commercial banks, she said.     Before 1983, thrift institutions paid a 25 basis point yield differential on savings deposits over that offered by commercial banks as mandated by U.S. financial regulations.     With the elimination in 1983 of regulations that had drawn strict lines between savings and loans and commercial banks, the gap widened to as much as 50 to 75 basis points as wary depositors demanded a higher premium to place their funds in thrift institutions, Fairbanks said.     "The market tax paid by today's thrift industry is the most significant impediment to future profits," she said.     Depositor confidence is also eroded by the existence of thrifts that are failing but manage to stay in business by paying deposit rates well above prevailing market rates.     Presently, the FHLBB cannot afford to close failing institiutions "because we can't afford it with the current FSLIC fund," she said.     Fairbanks estimated that the high market tax differential paid by thrifts will drop by at least 10 to 20 basis points with an adequate recapitalization of FSLIC because it will help restore this lost confidence.  Reuter &#3;

