30-MAR-1987 13:56:26.19

CHIRAC URGES EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY PLAN

French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac called on leading Western nations to set up a mechanism which would put a stop to volatile foreign exchange rates.     In a speech prepared for delivery to businessmen and bankers in New York, Chirac said said monetary stablility was a key element in bringing the world financial system back to health.     "The industrialized states should agree to set up a monetary framework which would provide the necessary stability as well as sufficient flexibility to allow ajustments when needed," Chirac said.     "This requires a monitoring and alert mechanism which would permit a timely and concerted reaction," he said.     The prime minister, on the first day of a three-day visit to the United States, said the February 22 Paris accords agreed by the "Group of Five" industrial nations should serve as a basis for the new mechanism.      Under the Paris accords, the United States, Britain, France, West Germany, and Japan agreed to stabilize exchange rates around existing parities. But, only five weeks after they were signed, they have failed to stop the dollar tumbling to record lows against the yen.     Chirac said the means to monitor exchange rate movements were readily available. "What is needed is the political will to use these more completely, in the spirit of the Paris accords... "     In other points of his speech, Chirac called on countries with high trade surpluses -- an apparent reference to Japan -- to open up their markets and stimulate demand.     He warned the United States that protectionist measures as debated in the U.S. Congress would bring a tough  response from the 12-nation European Community.     "Europe is very sensitive to every rumour of protectionism. It will react with energy and solidarity because it does not want to ruin its chances of recovery."     The Reagan administration is seeking to tone down a tough trade bill which if passed would require the president to retaliate against countries deemed to discriminate against U.S. Goods.     Chirac also appealed for an effort from developed countries to help the Third World by reducing interest rates and stimulating commodity prices.     "No stock-pile mechanism can run counter to the underlying trend of the market. These agreements must be complemented by financial aid to the developing countries hardest hit by the decline."     Chirac said he hoped concrete steps could be reached on these issues at forthcoming international meetings -- the International Monetary Fund/World Bank session in Washington and the June summit of seven leading western nations in Venice.  Reuter &#3;

