19-MAR-1987 13:27:17.98

EASED RESTRICTIONS TO CREATE NEW PHONE SERVICES

Consumers may benefit from new telephone services if business restrictions against the regional Bell companies are eased, but safeguards against rate hikes may be needed, congressional and industry analysts say.     An easing of the restrictions by the U.S. District Court would help bring new services to markets that the regional firms are currently prohibited from serving, the analysts say.     But consumer groups add that there is a danger the regional companies would raise rates to subsidize entry into new markets and safeguards would be needed to prevent that.     Brian Moir, a spokesman for the International Communications Association, a national group of telephone users, said, "If there are no safeguards, there will be higher rates, less competition and less consumer choice."     The seven regional Bell companies created from the breakup of American Telephone and Telegraph Co <T> in 1984 have been prohibited by the terms of the divestiture decree from manufacturing equipment, offering computerized information services or providing long-distance service.     U.S. District Judge Harold Greene, who presided over the divestiture and continues to enforce its terms, is currently considering a Justice Department recommendation to eliminate the restrictions except on long-distance service within a Bell holding company's local service region.     In separate filings last week, the regional Bells asked Greene to remove restrictions, while industry and consumer groups including the Consumer Federation of America joined ATT in asking that all or most of them be retained.     ATT, which has about an 80 pct share in the interstate long-distance market, said in its filing it would not oppose entry by the Bell companies into computerized information services but was against their participation in long-distance services and manufacturing equipment. ATT does not offer computerized information services.     ATT has asked the Federal Communications Commission, in a separate proceeding, to reduce price and rate regulations that have dominated the long-distance business for many years.     Greene is expected to reach a decision on whether to ease restrictions this year, possibly this summer, analysts said.     "The restrictions prevent people who can provide services from providing them," said a congressional aide.     However, a major concern among consumer groups and lawmakers is that the companies may subsidize those new businesses from higher charges to their customers.     "We're talking about activities funded directly or indirectly off the backs of ratepayers," said Moir.     One congressional aide said he was not worried about subsidizing new businesses from profits, but he was concerned that the Bell companies may overcharge consumers so that they can invest in new services.     Some analysts said accounting regulations would protect consumers against cross-subsidization by the Bell companies.     "Those are types of things that really do need review," said Gerry Salemme, an aide with the House Telecommunications, Consumer Protection and Finance Subcommittee.     He added that the House would hold hearings later this year to examine the potential effects of reduced restrictions.     Gene Kimmelman of the Consumer Federation, which represents more than 200 consumer groups, said accounting regulations were inadequate because accountants could not separate equipment employed for traditional and new services.     "We have yet to see adequate regulatory safeguards that exist that prevent cross-subsidization by the Bell companies," Kimmelman said. "You're either asking for great increases in rates or a great opportunity for cross-subsidization."     One congressional aide expressed concern that lifting of the restrictions would lead to joint ventures between U.S. and foreign firms in manufacturing telecommunications equipment and that could lead to a loss of American jobs. He suggested some safeguards may be needed to protect against that happening.  Reuter &#3;

