19-JUN-1987 19:02:50.50

CANADA POST SEEKS MEDIATOR, VIOLENCE ON PICKET

Canada Post asked the federal government to appoint a mediator to help end an increasingly violent series of strikes by the country's letter carriers.     The government is expected to respond quickly to the request that was made after the union formally rejected the corporation's latest offer to settle the four-day-old dispute.     The state-run postal service also said it would halt the use of replacement workers that the union has blamed for the trouble on the picket line.     "We have become increasingly concerned that the safety of our employees, both striking employees and replacement workers, is at risk," Canada Post negotiator Harold Dunstan told reporters at a downtown Ottawa hotel.     Robert McGarry, president of the 20,000 member Letter Carriers Union, told reporters he and other union leaders would consider suspending the walkouts for a week while the mediator is involved.     In a bid to step up pressure on management, letter carriers walked out in Toronto today where some 50 pct of the country's mail is sorted.     Workers also set up picket lines in other populous cities in southern Ontario, but went back to work in most other centers across Canada.     There have been several arrests, property damage, and sometimes violent clashes between strikers and replacement workers whom the corporation hired to try and keep the mail moving.     The Canadian Union of Postal Workers (CUPW), which represents postal employees who are not letter carriers and which is not on strike, said one of its workers was stabbed and is now in the hospital after a scuffle broke out with a replacement worker in Toronto early today.     Police, however, said they had no report of a stabbing.     CUPW President Jean-Claude Parrot called for the resignation of Andre Harvie, minister responsible for Canada Post, for condoning the use of the so-called strikebreakers.     "The federal government has (the) blood of workers on its hands in this postal strike," Parrot told reporters at the union's Ottawa headquarters.  Reuter &#3;

