 7-APR-1987 16:26:32.79

TEXACO <TX> FILES TO ENJOIN 10.3 BILLION DLR BOND

Texaco Inc made a filing in a Texas Court of Appeals to enjoin the enforcement of the 10.3 billion dlr judgement pending appeal, an attorney for Pennzoil Co <PZL> said.     "They made the filing in the First Court of Appeals in Texas," said John Jeffers, an attorney at the Houston law firm of Baker and Botts representing Pennzoil.     A Spokesman for Texaco had no immediate comment. Attorneys representing Texaco were not immediately available.     The filing follows yesterday's decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, overturning a lower federal court decision that had cut Texaco's bond to one billion dlrs. The high court ruled that the issue should first be considered by Texas state courts.     Texaco yesterday said it would soon file to prevent enforcement of the bond, but it was unsure whether it would make the filing in a District Court, the Court of Appeals or the Texas Supreme Court.     Jeffers said Texaco chose the Appeals Court because it currently has jurisdiction in the case.     According to Texas state law, Texaco could be forced to post the full amount of the judgement as a bond. If it failed to do so, Pennzoil could seek liens on Texaco's assets for the amount of the judgement.     Texaco's filing contains a request to cut the amount of the bond to between one and 1.5 billion dlrs, Jeffers said. Asked what Pennzoil's thought of that amount, he said, "I don't think it's enough."     Pennzoil has repeatedly said it would not seek to force Texaco to post the full amount of the judgement in the form of a bond, but has said it would seek other forms of security.     "We've recognized there are other alternatives to a bond," Jeffers, the Pennzoil attorney, said.     Pennzoil will also have the right to respond to the filing but Jeffers said he was unsure when the response would be made.     The dispute between Texaco and Pennzoil stems from the 1984 takeover of Getty Oil Co by Texaco. Pennzoil said the merger violated a prior agreement it had to buy Getty and sued Texaco. Since then, Pennzoil's position has twice been upheld by Texas State Courts. The Judgement now stands at 10.3 billion dlrs, including interest, and is on appeal.  Reuter &#3;

