 9-MAR-1987 03:51:51.19

U.S. SEEKS MAJOR JAPANESE ECONOMIC CHANGE IN APRIL

The United States has openly attacked Japan's tight-fisted fiscal policy for the first time and warned Tokyo its promised economic package in April must be significant, senior U.S. Officials said.     In high-level talks last week, the U.S. Criticised Japan's overall fiscal policy as deflationary and argued that its fiscal position is not as dire as it says.     The criticism reflects a growing feeling among some U.S. Policy-makers that Japan's tight fiscal policy is frustrating attempts to stimulate domestic demand and boost imports.     The U.S. Attack represents a distinct shift by the conservative Reagan administration, which until recently has been sympathetic to Tokyo's efforts to reduce the government role in the economy, diplomats said.     Pointing out that Japan pledged in Paris last month to take action to boost demand, a senior U.S. Treasury official said the April package must be more than routine.     Japanese government bureaucrats have already said they do not expect the package to contain much more than a rehash of last April's measures.     That means accelerated public investment, lower interest rates on government housing loans and measures to pass along the benefits of the strong yen to consumers, none of which would have a major immediate economic impact.     Several Japanese officials agreed that the real obstacle to stimulating the economy is the fiscal policy pursued by the Finance Ministry and said they welcomed the shift in U.S. Policy.     But they expressed concern that the move might backfire by fanning resentment against U.S. Interference in domestic affairs.     Makoto Kuroda, vice minister for international affairs at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, said Japan would stimulate the economy not in response to U.S. Criticism, but to meet mounting pressure from Japanese businessmen.     The shift in U.S. Policy is also causing some nervousness within the Reagan administration.     U.S. Undersecretary of State for Economic Affairs Allen Wallis told reporters last week the U.S. Does not necessarily want an increase in Japan's budget deficit.     "There are many measures Japan could take to stimulate its economy," he said.     The argument is not new and has been raised in the past by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.     What is new is U.S. Backing for the position.     At last week's talks, Japanese officials said, they argued Tokyo had been able to maintain a tight fiscal stance and boost the economy with funds from the giant postal savings system.     But the Finance Ministry was interested enough to ask for, and receive, the figures supporting the new U.S. Position, a senior U.S. Official said.     Other western officials are not so sure. They said it would take time to boost public investment much further, as there are not that many projects in the pipeline.     Stepped-up capital spending would help domestic construction companies, but it would not have much impact on imports, they added.  REUTER &#3;

