 7-APR-1987 17:06:45.01

DREXEL TELLS U.S. STOCK BUYERS TO LOOK ABROAD

Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc is telling clients getting nervous about the volatile U.S. stock market to take a look at European and other foreign stock markets.     "We're still pushing for a fully invested position (in U.S. stocks) but we also recognize the market is up 40 pct since September," says Burton Siegel, investment strategist.     Rein van der Does, director of international research, admits to being cautious and somewhat confused about certain developments in the Tokyo market, such as Nippon Telephone shares trading at 250 times earnings.     The firm recently dropped its recommendation on Jaguar plc <JAGRY> following a sharp runup in the shares. About the same time, says analyst Khaled Abdel Majeed, Drexel issued a buy recommendation on the West german automaker BMW.     He says a new plant and new models brighten the outlook for 1987 and 1988. "The company trades in Germany on the parent company's earnings but on worldwide consolidated earnings, the multiple is seven or eight, half that of competitors."     By contrast Jaguar's share price to earnings multiple is about 12 and Daimler-Benz AG is around 14 or 15.     Drexel analyst Lucille Palermo recently upgraded recommendations on some Canadian gold stocks. With no recession in sight she sees improved physical demand plus new buying interest from the Middle East. Also, expectation of a higher inflation rate stimulates demand.     On the supply side she thinks "people are overlooking the problems in South Africa."  Palermo says all of this will push the bullion price to 475 dlrs an ounce by the end of the year.     Her current buy recommendations are Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd <AEAGF>, American Barrick Resources Corp <ABX>, and Echo Bay Mines Ltd <ECO>.     Palermo also believes the overall Canadian stock market has greater potential this year than last. Although the Canadian dollar has moved up slightly it is below levels of several years ago. "Canadian exports of all types look relatively cheap to foreigners - resources, manufactured goods, bonds and stocks."     Other European stocks favored by Drexel include Club Mediterranee <CMI>, Pernod-Ricard, Royal Dutch Petroleum <RD>, Unilever <UN>, British Petroleum Co plc <BP> and Imperial Chemical Industries plc <ICI>. Drexel cautions U.S. investors that foreign dividends may be subject to withholding tax.  Reuter &#3;

