13-APR-1987 18:50:06.05

TEXACO <TX> PENNZOIL <PZL> WIDE APART ON ACCORD

Texaco Inc and Pennzoil Co are still far apart on a settlement of their 10.3 billion dlrs dispute, but both sides are still willing to settle, executives from both companies said.     Pennzoil chairman J. Hugh Liedtke, on the MacNeil/Lehrer News Hour, said Pennzoil had offered to settle the dispute along the lines suggested by Wall Street analysts - something in the range of three to five billion dlrs - but Texaco Inc president James Kinnear said it was the first time he heard the three to five billion dlrs figure.     Kinnear, on the television news program, said Pennzoil had talked about four to five billion dlrs previously.     Both executives, who were taped in separate interviews, each accused the other of irresponsible actions in the ongoing legal battle, which involves Texaco's 1984 takeover of Getty Oil Co.     Yesterday, Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code, stating it was unable to continue its business because of the legal fight.     Liedtke said Pennzoil is prepared to litigate the matter as long as it takes to bring the case to a final conclusion.     Lietke said he thought it would take about 18 months to two years to conclude the case.     Asked if chance of a settlement were out the window, Liedtke replied, "I've never thought that was the case. I always believed this could be settled. But it will never be settled as long as Texaco has the position that it has that either you will settle with us on our basis or we will hold our breath till we die."      But Kinnear said, "we offered a big reasonable settlement."     Kinnear also seemed to confirm remarks made at an analysts meeting earlier today where Texaco said it would only settle the matter for far less than what it offered before.     "The offers we made yesterday won't be repeated tomorrow," Kinnear said.     Kinnear charged that Pennzoil was "using extortionary pressure to deny us the ability to conduct our business." He said that pressure forced the company into its Chapter 11 filing.      But he added he still hoped the dispute would be settled.  Reuter &#3;

