17-MAR-1987 17:39:09.02

U.S. OTC MARKET PROPOSES ONE-SHARE, ONE-VOTE

The National Association of Securities Dealers said all stock exchanges should require that listed companies adopt a "one-share, one-vote" rule, but with a few exceptions.     In a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD President Gordon Macklin said the group would be happy to be the first exchange to adopt a uniform rule but with certain exceptions.     "Clearly the NASD would willingly be the first to do so. If a voluntary private sector resolution is not practical, then the commission should adopt the rule to apply to all markets," the NASD said.     An NASD study found that 95 percent of the companies in the OTC offered only one class of stock.     The NASD proposal calls for all stock markets to have a uniform rule which would emphasize the principle of equal voting rights, but allow for legitimate variations.     The NASD would allow companies to issue shares that do not have voting rights as long as the limitation is clearly spelled out to investors. It wants to prevent listed companies from turning voting shares into non-voting shares, without shareholder approval, Parrillo said.     "A uniform rule should be written to cure what has been construed by some to be an abusive practice involving the use of stock with other than full voting rights," the association said in the statement.     Exceptions would include:     -- shares in a registerd public offering where all facts connected with the company's capital structure are clearly spelled out in the prospectus.     -- shares issued in connection with a merger, acquisition or recapitalization where the exchange of shares is accompanied by detailed proxy material.     The NYSE rule would allow companies to have a dual class of stock only if a majority of publicly held shares and a majority of independent directors on the board approve the move. The NYSE has allowed its few listed companies which have dual classes to continue trading, pending approval from the SEC.     The NASD specifically wants to disallow issuance of dual class shares where those with superior voting rights are not resalable. Parillo said such a provision would in effect prevent a firm from ever being purchased by anyone else.  Reuter &#3;

