 3-APR-1987 11:34:48.58

UK HOPES HOWARD'S TOKYO TRIP WILL EASE TENSIONS

Britain and Japan remained deadlocked today over trade policies, and political sources said the U.K. Government was pinning hopes for a breakthrough on the trip to Tokyo next week by Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard.     Howard told Reuters he would try to "promote understanding on trade issues" during his trip, which starts tomorrow.     Meanwhile, Britain will re-examine a letter from Japan's prime minister promising his personal help for a solution to the row over a U.K. Firm's bid to win a significant role in Japan's liberalised telecommunications market, government sources said.     Tensions have risen following the decision by Britain to arm itself early with new statutory powers which it says could be used against certain Japanese financial insitutions.     Britain had reacted optimistically at first to the letter from Japanese leader Yasuhiro Nakasone to U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. It had been seen as a signal that he would work towards ensuring a satisfactory outcome to the bid launched by Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L>, officials said.     But this view has been clouded by reports from Tokyo that Nakasone's assurances really constituted little more than politeness in the face of loud British anger, they added.     Howard said he would use his trip to push for a bigger role in Japan's telecommunications industry for Cable and Wireless Plc. The U.K. Government has made the issue a test case for Japan's willingness to open its markets adequately to outside competition.     Asked whether the letter from Nakasone was a rejection of attempts by Britain to achieve that, Howard said "I am not sure it is correct to regard Mr Nakasone's letter as a rejection of Mrs Thatcher's request of him - and it says he is taking a personal interest in this problem."     "I don't understand it to be closed at all."     During his visit to Tokyo, Howard said "I shall be talking to them about it (the letter), finding out exactly what they do mean about it, and making it plain that we take a very serious view of the fact that access to Japanese markets is not as free as we allow acces to our markets to be."     He noted that under the new Financial Services Act, Britain could revoke or deny licences to Japanese banking and insurance institutions in London if U.K. Firms fail to get receive similar treatment in financial markets in Japan soon.     "I hope it won't come to that, and I don't think it will," Howard added.     Officials involved in Howard's Tokyo itinerary said they had tried to arrange meetings with Japanese officials who were least likely to see trade issues in too a parochial a light.  Reuter &#3;

