13-APR-1987 08:09:00.74

FURTHER WEAKNESS SEEN IN TOKYO STOCKS IN NEAR TERM

Tokyo share prices are expected to weaken further for about a week, following a sharp drop which at one time today saw the Nikkei Dow index down 571.01 points in mid-afternoon trading, brokers said.     They said uncertainty caused by disputes between Japan and its main trading partners will continue to deter investors from equities.     The market index, which closed the day 297.05 points down at 22,919.54, will probably end the present downturn at around 22,300 points, brokers predicted.     "This is just a short-term correction and the market will probably end up at about 22,300 in about a week's time," said a broker at Nomura Securities Co.     He said that today's late recovery from afternoon lows showed that investors were still hunting bargains in anticipation of an upturn.     Brokers reiterated expectations of an imminent cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate, a factor seen to be diverting money from bank accounts into stocks and boosting the market.     Securities company, bank and insurance issues, likely to benefit from a rate cut, were bought in late trading.     The Nomura broker said he expects the rate cut in May or June, after Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's scheduled visit to Washington on April 29. Nakasone is expected to seek an end to Japanese-U.S. Trade disputes which are hurting investor confidence.     "Until we see some concerted effort by the Japanese to halt the yen's rise against the dollar and settle trade disputes, the market will stay low," said head of equities at Jardine Fleming Securities Co, Mario Malt.     Malt said current talks between the countries were inflammatory and damaged stockmarket optimism.     Brokers also said that Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has to show it still rules, after Sunday's nationwide local elections showed dwindling support.     "It raises doubts on whether the LDP can push through the reforms it planned for this year," said one broker.     Top policy priorities this year are deregulation of financial activities, stimulation of domestic demand to boost imports and removal of agricultural subsidies.     If these policies are abandoned or scaled down, stockmarket investors will have few reasons to buy stocks, brokers said.  REUTER &#3;

