 3-APR-1987 04:30:58.21

CHINA CURTAILS KEY REFORM GOAL OF REALISTIC PRICES

Fear of social instability and inflation has forced China to curtail a major economic reform -- overhauling a pricing system in which prices bear no relation to production costs.     Despite pledges last year that price changes were needed to get the economy on the right track, Peking has repeatedly said no major change will happen this year. The backtracking has occurred during a conservative backlash following the resignation in January of reformist Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang, western diplomats and Chinese sources say.     "Price changes in the last two years have aroused great public discontent, especially in the cities," one western diplomat said.     "Chinese were used to stable prices for 30 years from 1949 when the communists took over. On a recent visit to two major cities, the refrain from all the officials was the need to preserve social stability."     A Chinese journalist said the reformers under-estimated the potential public resistance to price increases.     "A major review of all economic reforms is under way, the biggest since the reforms began in 1979, because many things are not going well -- a large budget deficit, too rapid price increases and no major improvement in productivity of state firms," the Chinese journalist said.     This view was reflected by the official People's Daily in a major article this week. The daily said price increases had been taking place too quickly in recent years.     "In future, price changes should be only in small steps," it said, adding that wage increases and lax monetary policies had resulted in too much money chasing too few goods.     The Chinese journalist said the review was in part due to political factors.     "Economics and politics are inseparable in China. But the western media are wrong to classify the leadership into reformers and conservatives. All the leaders agree on the main direction -- economic reform and the open-door," he said.     "But there are differences of opinion on the pace of reform and on specific policies. No one is advocating a return to how things were before 1979."     Those who say prices should reflect production costs believe the issue is vital to China's economy.     Sugar is an example. An official newspaper said earlier this year that over 40 pct of the country's sugar mills were losing money, or had closed because the price of sugar had not changed for 20 years, while the production costs have risen sharply over the same period.     The western diplomat said Chinese leaders did not fear a backlash against rising prices would result in rioting in the streets, which they had the means to control.     "The bottom line is how such protests would be used by those in the power struggle (inside the Communist Party)," he said.     Said a foreign lawyer, referring to the crisis sparked by student demonstrations which led to Hu's replacement, "The leadership here is a self-perpetuating oligarchy. There is no way that it is going to give up power."     The Chinese journalist added that China appears to have reached a crossroads.     "There is no clear proposal as to what to do next," he said. "Premier Zhao (Ziyang) has instructed his think-tanks to come up with how to continue the reforms in 1988."     But for the time being at least, the path leading to price reforms is out of favour.  REUTER &#3;

