18-MAR-1987 12:54:30.82

MONEY BROKER SOUGHT IN VOLKSWAGEN CURRENCY SCANDAL

The state prosecutor investigating a suspected currency swindle which may have lost Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> millions of dollars said he wanted to question a Frankfurt-based money broker.     Prosecutor Carl Hermann Retemeyer told Reuters the broker, Joachim Schmidt, may be able to shed light on the affair in which VW says it might have been defrauded of up to 480 mln marks.     No charges have been laid in what may turn out to be West Germany's largest known currency fraud.     The incident has led to political calls for tighter controls on the free-wheeling money and currency markets.     Retemeyer gave no further details of the investigation. His office understood that Schmidt was on a business trip.     A spokesman for the brokerage firm told Reuters that Schmidt had been expected back on Monday from the United States but had not returned yet, and his current whereabouts were not known.     Brokerage firms fulfill a middle-man function in currency and money markets, matching buy and sell orders between banks and other large customers who may prefer to remain anonymous.     The financial newsletter, Platow, said today the state prosecutor, called in when suspicion of fraud first came to light on February 18, had to date been able to find no evidence of personal enrichment by VW employees.     The newsletter reported on November 3 last year that VW had incurred losses in the "three-figure millions" because it had not protected itself against a fall in the value of the dollar.     This was denied at the time by VW executive board chairman Carl Hahn.     Financial director Rolf Selowsky resigned last week after news of the currency fraud, an executive has been fired and several others are suspended.     A Frankfurt business lawyer, Egon Geis, said yesterday that on February 10 he had offered VW information about the currency fraud and offered to provide a written confession by someone involved.     He said VW declined his offer, but the company says the tip was taken to top management and that Geis later met Hahn but failed to produce the document.  REUTER &#3;

