31-MAR-1987 14:50:40.44

DUTCH MINISTER ATTACKS W. GERMAN FARM POSITION

Dutch Agriculture Minister Gerrit Braks said today the Netherlands deeply regretted West German opposition to radical reforms aimed at halting unwanted European Community (EC) food production.     Braks told journalists he had rounded on his West German counter-part Ignaz Kiechle and accused Bonn of "lacking the courage to tell farmers their methods were outdated" during a private meeting of Christian Democrat politicians on Sunday.     Braks said he told Kiechle: "You (Bonn) have had years to put your house in order and failed to do so."     His comments came shortly before EC ministers failed to reach agreement at two days of talks on prices to be paid to EC farmers from the start of the new crop year on April 1.     The ministers agreed to roll over the present year for two months and resume negotiations in Luxembourg next month.     The proposals from the EC's Brussels headquarters would slash guaranteed prices paid to producers and seek to peg farm spending at its current two-thirds share of a total budget of 36.2 billion European Currency Units (41 billion dlrs).     The attack from Braks comes at a time when relations between the EC's Executive Commission, which has proposed the reform measures, and Bonn are at an all-time low.     The entire 17-man Commission is today visiting Bonn, once the most enthusiastic EC member, in an attempt to overcome differences largely resulting from bids to rein in out of control agricultural expenditure.     Kiechle, who yesterday denounced as totally unacceptable new limits on producers' rights to sell unlimited amounts of excess products into Community warehouses, warned the meeting the measures lead to political instability in his country.     He said they did not even form the basis of negotiation and stressed they were opposed by all political parties in the country.     The issue of farm reform has been pushed to the top of the Community's agenda by the group's protracted financial crises and by growing international tension over farm surpluses and subsidies.  Reuter &#3;

