20-OCT-1987 17:36:54.40

PACIFIC EXCHANGE MAY SEE RECORD VOLUME AGAIN

Pacific Stock Exchange Chairman Maurice Mann said the exchange may have reached record volume again today, following yesterday's record 17.6 mln shares.     it looks like at least the same volume as yesterday, Mann said at a news conference following the close.     The exchange closed one-half hour early for the second straight day. Mann said the exchange will determine daily whether or not to close early over the next several days.     Mann said the only major operational problem today occurred when the exchange had to stop trading 30 over-the-counter options, 17 of which trading were restored later in the day.     He said the options had to be halted because price information on the underlying stocks was not being disseminated on the floor quickly enough.     "You cannot trade an option, unless you know how much its worth," he said.     Mann said the exchange's computer system was working better than had been expected under the pressure of the heavy trading volume.     "This system was not designed to do what it did today and yesterday," he said.     He said technical adjustments to the system since yesterday improved today's operations. He would not elaborate.     Mann said the decision to close the exchange early was not due to concerns over the vulnerability of being open one half hour after New York closed. Rather, he said, it was to allow trades to be tallied in conformance with other exchanges.     In Los Angeles, traders said although trading was hectic, they were able to keep up with orders better than yesterday.     "We could handle the orders we got. Things seem to be smoothing out," said Richard Goforth, a partner with Crowell Weedon and Co who trades on the Los Angeles exchange floor.     Goforth, added, however, traders expected to be there into the evening sorting out the paperwork on their trades.     Jefferies and Co Director of Trading James Melton said the firm has been extremely busy making markets in halted stocks and in after hours trading. He said Jefferies has been trading about 15 hours a day, beginning at 0300 pdt.     Melton said Jefferies made markets in such blue chip stocks as International Business Machines <IBM>, Allegis Corp <AEG> and Merck and Co <MRK> while they were halted on the exchanges.     Melton declined to give volumes of off-market trading the company has been doing, but said, "its just very, very busy... when the stocks are halted our markets are very active." He said he expects the heavy volume to continue through the week.     While sellers still predominated, Melton added, "people were bottom fishing a little bit in the blue chips...but its very nervous."   Reuter &#3;

