23-APR-1987 20:30:17.87

JAPANESE PARLIAMENT PASSES 1987 BUDGET

Parliament's Lower House passed the 1987 budget shortly before midnight local time, official parliamentary sources said.     The move followed agreement by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party to a proposal that could kill its plan to introduce a controversial sales tax, political analysts said. The move was seen as a major blow to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, the leading advocate of the five pct tax, they said.     Some analysts said Nakasone may be forced to step down after the June summit of heads of major industrial democracies and before his one-year term is due to expire at end-October.     Under the compromise agreed by the LDP and opposition parties, Lower House Speaker Kenzaburo Hara will take charge of the sales tax bill, appoint a ruling/opposition party council to debate it and allow opposition leaders to review the present tax system, analysts said.     Hara also verbally agreed to scrap the sales tax plan entirely if the joint council fails to reach agreement on how to handle the tax.     The opposition parties, who have been vociferously attacking the sales tax plan for months, hailed the decision as a great victory.     The opposition parties had already delayed passage of the budget for three weeks after the April 1 start of the fiscal year by intermittent parliamentary boycotts.     Although the LDP had more than enough votes to ram the budget through parliament, it had been reluctant to do so for fear of a backlash of public opinion, especially after its setback in recent local elections due to the sales tax issue.     The ruling party though was anxious to pass the budget before Nakasone leaves next week for the U.S. So that he could tell Washington the Japanese government was doing its utmost to boost the sagging economy and imports.     According to Kyodo News Service, Nakasone told reporters he did not think the sales tax was dead.     If the sales tax is dropped, it could prove a major boost to the economy because it would increase the government budget deficit, economists said.     The sales tax was originally scheduled to be introduced next January to help offset the loss of government revenues stemming from a cut in income and corporate taxes due to go into effect this month.  REUTER &#3;

