19-JUN-1987 00:12:36.11

PHILIPPINE STOCKS SOAR TO NEW HIGHS, RECORD VOLUME

Investors on Philippine stock markets have shrugged off growing communist activity in the cities to push share prices to all-time highs on record turnover, brokers said.     Regularly heavy trading of more than one billion shares a day has sent the Manila exchange's composite index soaring to 775.9 from 577.2 points in just over three weeks.     Brokers described recent trading as "frantic" and "hectic" as trading records were smashed day after day.     A total 2.6 billion shares worth 259.4 million pesos changed hands on the main Manila and the less important Makati exchanges yesterday, with much of the activity among centavo priced stocks, brokers said. The turnover was more than double the record of 1.1 billion shares worth 118.1 million pesos set on Wednesday.     Brokers said rising gold prices caused mining shares to shoot up three weeks ago, and other sectors followed. Share prices continued their rise even when the gold price fell back to 450 dlrs an ounce, due to rising confidence in President Corazon Aquino's handling of the economy, they said.     Brokers said Aquino's handling of the 18-year-old communist insurgency and the maintenance of relatively low interest rates also contributed to the rise.     Blue chip stocks, such as those of San Miguel Corp and Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co (PLDT), have risen 25 pct in three weeks, and the trend is upward in the medium term although a temporary correction is overdue, they said.     Since the surge began on May 26, Manila's Mining index has risen to 5,700.4 points from 4,042.4, its commercial and industrial index has shot up to 881.0 from 694.9 points, and the oils indicator has increased to 4.1 from 2.9 points.     Market activity has been rising in spurts since Ferdinand Marcos was replaced by Aquino 16 months ago.     One broker said he thought the Philippine stock market "may at last have come of age."     Wilson Sy, president of Prudential Securities, a local stockbroking firm with Hong Kong affiliations, told Reuters, "Barring any unforeseen political events you can bet on the Philippine market. It has shrugged off the communist inroads into Manila."     Assassins have killed 52 policemen, soldiers and security guards in the capital this year.     Communist hitmen known as sparrows have claimed they killed 22 of them.     Sy said Philippine stocks were undervalued in world terms with price-earnings ratios often half those in Hong Kong and one-sixth those in Japan. He said PLDT, which is also U.S. Listed, has a price-earnings ratio of about nine.     Sy predicted Manila's composite index would rise beyond 1,000 points from its current 775.9 mark by year-end.     Other brokers were more cautious, saying Aquino had to improve peace and order before investors could treat the Philippines as they would Hong Kong or Tokyo.     One broker said he believed about 30 pct of the money going into stocks was now foreign, much of it from fund managers and their agents based in Hong Kong and New York.     Manila Stock Exchange chairman Robert Coyuito told Reuters, "If the peace and order situation really improved the market could move beyond a price-earnings ratio of 20 times."     "But all depends on how Congress performs and the local elections go," he said.     A new two-chamber legislature was elected last month and is due to sit on July 27. Local elections are scheduled for November.     PLDT shares closed at 630 pesos a share yesterday, 30 pesos above Wednesday's record close. PLDT share prices have risen about nine-fold in 18 months.     San Miguel shares closed at 190 pesos, also a historic high, brokers said.  REUTER &#3;

