 5-APR-1987 05:03:59.35

JAL PLANE CRASH THOUGHT DUE TO BOEING <BA.N> FAULT

A Japanese government investigation team believes that faulty repairs by Boeing Co caused the worst single plane crash in history, one of the team said.     Boeing Co is the manufacturer of the Japan Air Lines 747 jumbo jet which crashed into a mountain in Japan on August 12, 1985, killing 520 people. There were only four survivors.     A Boeing spokesman, contacted by telephone at the firm's headquarters in Seattle, Washington, told Reuters the firm would probably have no comment to make until the Japanese investigation team's report was officially released.     The team investigator, a Japanese Transport Ministry official who declined to be identified, said a failure by Japanese aircraft inspectors to check the repair work done on the plane by a Boeing team had provoked an internal debate in the Ministry over inspection procedures.     The Ministry official told Reuters that a report by his team, which has already been sent in draft form to the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board for comment, should be released in late May. Under an international convention, the draft must be submitted for final comments to the pertinent authorities.     Asked on Thursday about Boeing's role in the crash, a Ministry spokesman declined comment.     On September 6, 1985, Boeing issued an official statement saying that repairs it had undertaken on the doomed Japan Air Lines plane in 1978 were faulty.     However, no official, direct connection was then made between the faulty repairs and the crash.     The Japanese investigation team says in its draft report that it believes those faulty repairs were the cause of the 1985 accident, the investigator said.     The Boeing statement after the crash said: "Examination of the wreckage, the flight data recorder readout, the cockpit voice recorder, and interviews with the surviving off-duty flight attendant indicate that decompression occurred in flight due to a rupture of the aft pressure bulkhead.     "The Boeing examination of the bulkhead at the site of the crash has revealed that a relatively small section of the bulkhead splice, approximately 17 per cent, was not correctly assembled during repairs which Boeing made after a 1978 landing accident," the statement said.     The repairs were required after a 1978 landing accident at Osaka airport, in western Japan, in which the plane's tail scraped the runway.     The Japanese report also mentions the government inspectors who in 1978 signed a certificate of airworthiness approving the repairs, he said.     Police had investigated four inspectors, including one man who two weeks ago killed himself by drinking insecticide after four days of police questioning.     "None of the four had looked at Boeing's repair work," the investigator said.  REUTER &#3;

