 3-MAR-1987 14:17:59.90

AMR <AMR> AIRCRAFT FINANCING SEEN POSITIVELY

The deal AMR Corp cut to buy 40 new planes is a plus for the company because it clearly puts the financial burden on aircraft manufacturers Boeing Co <BA> and <Airbus Industrie>, a European consortium, analysts said.     "The terms put most of the risk on the shoulders of the manufacturers," said analyst Kevin Murphy of Morgan Stanley and Co. "They're called walkaway leases."     AMR agreed to buy 15 planes from Boeing and 25 from Airbus but said its American Airlines unit will lease the aircraft, which essentially will be owned by the manufacturers.     AMR declined to value the deal, which analysts estimated at roughly 2.4 billion dlrs. American Airlines will use the planes, scheduled for delivery in 1988 and 1989, to expand its service in the Caribbean and to Europe.     But AMR will not lay out cash deposits to pay for the planes, nor will it take on new debt to finance the purchases. The carrier has 20-year leases on the aircraft, with four-year extension options, and may cancel the leases with 30 days notice by paying a small penalty, according to AMR chairman Robert Crandall.     "We're getting the aircraft on very favorable terms," Crandall told a press briefing here. He called the deals "off balance sheet" limited obligation leases, under which the financing is provided by the manufacturers.     A spokesman for Airbus confirmed those terms. "We will own the aircraft and they will be leasing them from us," he said. Airbus is providing American Airlines with 25 of its twin-jet, long-range A300-600 planes.     A spokesman for Boeing Commercial Airplane Co, the unit of Boeing that makes the long-range 767-300 planes that are part of the deal, declined to comment on financing arrangements.     Analysts said "walkaway lease" deals have been used before by airlines buying aircraft, particularly new generations of planes, but not to this extent.     Julius Maldutis of Salomon Brothers Inc said the deal will give AMR financial stability as it grows. "AMR is using the manufacturers' balance sheets to finance these airplanes and consequently, its debt to equity ratio will remain stable into the early 1990s," he said.     "The deal reflects a fundamental trend where airlines will increasingly become operators of assets rather than owners" to reduce their exposure to risk, he added.  Reuter &#3;

