 5-MAR-1987 17:28:13.10

GARN FEARS RUN ON SAVINGS AND LOAN DEPOSITS

Sen. Jake Garn (R-Utah) said a delay in rescuing the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp risked a run on thrift deposits by nervous customers.     Garn told a Georgetown University conference on financial institutions that news reports that the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp was technically in deficit were true and urged swift congressional action to strengthen the fund.     Garn said his office received calls from individuals worried about the safety of their money. "The runs have started," Garn, a member of the Banking Committee, said.     Legislation to infuse more money into the fund which insures savings deposits was to be voted on today by the committee but was postponed because of last-minute differences.     FSLIC has reserves of two billion dlrs but faces potential claims of 15 billion dlrs, Garn said.     He said the claims would not come all at once, however, and dismissed any real danger to deposits at federally insured thrifts up to the insurance level of 100,000 dlrs.     "People's money is safe," Garn said, but he added, "We need to quiet down the situation and put their fear to bed."     Garn said he and Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D-Wis) agree on the need for legislation but they differed over strategy.     Garn opposes including other issues in the legislation and would prefer a bill that was limited to restoring FSLIC and giving regulators more power to cope with failing banks and thrifts.     Proxmire's bill also would prohibit new so-called nonbank banks and thrifts which use a regulatory loophole to operate outside the usual legal limits on traditional banks.     William Isaac, former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, told the conference that if that fund were combined with FSLIC they could have 29 billion dlrs and cover contingencies for both the bank and thrift industries.     However, political differences make a merger of the two federal funds unlikely, Isaac, now president of the Secura Group, a consulting firm, said.     By the 1990's the financial industry will include a handful of nationwide institutions offering every type of financial service which evolved from today's banks, nontraditional financial firms and industrial companies.  Reuter &#3;

