 8-APR-1987 08:35:21.11

ASEAN SHOWS MIXED PERFORMANCE IN 1986

A sharp oil price decline and sharp fluctuations of exchange and interest rates in 1986 produced a mixed economic performance by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), a United Nations study said.     The annual report of the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) said the international economic environment reversed the fortunes of the trade-oriented economies of the six ASEAN member countries.     It said the already low 1985 growth rates of ASEAN's oil exporting countries -- Brunei, Malaysia and Indonesia -- dropped further after the oil price fall.     Three oil importers -- Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand -- improved their performance mainly by restructuring their economies. But the report said the oil price fall reduced export earnings, worsening economic prospects for the exporters.     The exporters' non-oil commodity prices did not show major improvement and protectionist pressures from industrial countries restricted export of manufactured products, it said.     The GDPs of Indonesia, which was 1.9 pct in 1985, and Malaysia, which fell a real one pct, barely grew in 1986.     The two countries, buffeted by unfavourable external factors in the past few years, were forced to curb aggregate domestic consumption demands last year to avoid severe balance of payments pressures and to resort to extensive commercial borrowings.     The U.N. Body said the economic outlooks of Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines improved steadily in 1986 as the year advanced. It said the most favourable factor benefiting the three was the realignment of key currencies, especially the appreciation of the yen, which has resulted in the increased competitiveness of their exports against those from Japan.     The report said the downward spiral plaguing the Philippine economy since 1983 was reversed into an estimated 0.9 pct GDP growth in 1986 with agriculture and public utilities becoming growth sectors.     It said the resumption of the Philippines' sustained growth rests largely on a satisfactory solution of its debt problem.     ESCAP said the yen appreciation, together with economic restructuring measures, played a big role in helping Singapore recover faster than expected from its 1.8 pct GDP decline in 1985.     It said the Singapore GDP achieved a growth of over one pct last year after registering positive growth from the second quarter.     The Singapore economic revival was hampered by its own adjustment measures especially its two-year wage freeze enforced last April, a glut of its property market and depressed conditions in its ASEAN neighbours which hurt Singapore because they take about a quarter of its total exports.     The report said Thailand benefited from the changing world economic environment far more than any of its ASEAN neighbours.     The Thai performance stemmed from the expansion o&#127; its non-traditional export items last year to cover more manufactured products and its greater exploration of unsaturated export markets such as Asia, the Middle East and the European Community.  REUTER &#3;

