 3-APR-1987 13:30:26.85

UK MINISTER LOOKS TO EASE TENSION ON TOKYO TRIP

The U.K. Government hopes for a breakthrough on the deadlock with Japan over trade policies during next week's visit to Tokyo by Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard, political sources said.     Howard, who leaves for Japan tomorrow, told Reuters he will try to promote understanding on trade issues during his visit.     Meanwhile, Britain will re-examine a letter from Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone promising personal help in solving the row over a U.K. Firm's bid to win a significant role in Japan's telecommunications market, government sources said.     Tensions have risen following Britain's decision to arm itself early with new statutory powers which it says could be used against certain Japanese financial institutions.     Britain reacted optimistically at first to the letter from Nakasone to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, seeing it as a signal that he would work towards ensuring a satisfactory outcome to the bid launched by Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L>, government officials said.     But this view has since been clouded by reports from Tokyo that Nakasone's assurances really constituted little more than politeness in the face of British anger, they added.     Howard said he would use his trip to push for a bigger role in Japan's telecommunications industry for Cable and Wireless Plc. The U.K. Government has made the issue a test case for Japan's willingness to open its markets adequately to outside competition.     Asked whether the letter from Nakasone was a rejection of attempts by Britain to achieve that, Howard said "I am not sure it is correct to regard Mr Nakasone's letter as a rejection of Mrs Thatcher's request of him - and it says he is taking a personal interest in this problem.     "I don't understand it to be closed at all."     Howard added that during his Tokyo visit he would be "talking to them about it (the letter), finding out exactly what they do mean about it, and making it plain that we take a very serious view of the fact that access to Japanese markets is not as free as we allow access to our markets to be."     He noted that under the new Financial Services Act, Britain could revoke or deny licences to Japanese banking and insurance institutions in London if U.K. Firms fail to receive similar treatment in financial markets in Japan soon.     "I hope it won't come to that, and I don't think it will," Howard added.     During the trip Howard will meet officials in the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Ministry of Finance, the Trade Ministry, and Posts and Telecommunications Minister Shunjiro Karasawa.     Karasawa is regarded as behind opposition to any significant role for Cable and Wireless in the Japanese telecommunications industry.     Share prices on the London Stock Exchange were undermined again today by fears of a possible U.K./Japanese trade war. This was despite denials by Trade and Industry Secretary Paul Channon that Britain was on the verge of a trade war.     He told a meeting of insurance brokers today that Britain believed a "sensible solution" could be found which would open Japanese markets to British goods.     Government officials were at pains today to deny that Britain had set a deadline of three weeks for Japan to promise similar access to its financial markets to U.K.-based financial firms as that enjoyed in London by equivalent Japanese firms.     They said that Department of Trade and Industry officials had said yesterday that the measures against Japanese financial institutions could be imposed from then but that this did not necessarily constitute a deadline.     Experts believe Britain would lose out by acting against Japanese banks, insurance and investment institutions. But despite the danger of Japanese firms taking their trade elsewhere in Europe, Howard said he did not expect the move to backfire.     He said in a radio interview today  "it is true that we benefit from their presence - but they would not want to lose those advantages. And I am sure they are making their views plain to the Japanese government on this matter."     Howard, who will also be visiting South Korea before returning to London on April 11, said his trip to Tokyo was planned well before the current trade row.     Howard said his talks with Japanese officials would also include ways of jointly combating financial fraud in global markets with Japanese officials. This would be done through a cooperation between national regulatory bodies.     He said a memorandum of understanding for exchanging information to combat financial fraud would be sought with Japan on terms similar to one signed last autumn between Britain and the United States.  REUTER &#3;

