31-MAR-1987 15:08:24.41

GM <GM> CANADA SETS QUEBEC PLANT MODERNIZATION

General Motors of Canada Ltd, wholly owned by General Motors Corp, said it is planning a 450 mln Canadian dlr retooling and modernization of its 21-year-old Ste. Therese, Quebec, plant and has received 220 mln dlrs in interest-free government loans for the project.     GM Canada said the Canadian and Quebec governments are each providing a 110 mln dlr loan for the upgrading.     The company said much of the investment will be used to build a paint complex, which will make the plant competitive with other GM plants in the U.S. and Canada.     The 450-mln-dlr investment includes the cost of retooling the plant to assemble front-wheel drive Chevrolet Celebrity cars, which will be produced at Ste. Therese, beginning in May, GM Canada said.     "With the new paint complex and tooling, our plant will be fully modernized to be world competitive," GM Canada president George Peapples told a news conference.     He said construction will begin this year on the modern base coat/clear coat paint complex, which will provide enhanced color standards and improved paint quality, he said.     The Canadian government said the modernization will guarantee continued long-term employment for about 3,500 assembly line workers at the Ste. Therese plant and for about 4,300 people employed in supply jobs in Ontario and Quebec.     "Without our participation...we faced the prospect of losing this plant," said Michel Cote, Canadian minister of regional industrial expansion.     Cote said he expected 3,100 new supplier jobs will be created by the increased production in Ste. Therese.     The project will transfer the company's front-wheel drive "A" car production to Ste. Therese from Oshawa, Ontario and will not increase the Ste Therese plant's capacity, GM Canada said.     It said it has produced 2.5 mln vehicles at the Ste. Therese plant since 1965.     The paint plant is expected to cost 200 to 250 mln dlrs and begin operation in two years, Peapples told reporters after the announcement.     The retooling included in the project had been announced in December but the company had not put a value on the retooling costs, he said.     Peapples estimated the interest-free loans could save GM Canada about 60 mln dlrs at a 10 pct interest rate.     He said the loans are repayable in full in 30 years if GM keeps the plant open. If the company closes the plant in the 1990s, it will have to pay the federal and provincial governments a total 75 mln dlrs of the loan by 1991.     Peapples said GM Canada asked for the government loans because, due to an expected overcapacity in the auto industry in the 1990s, the company was not prepared to take the risks involved in the investment by itself.     GM Canada said the level of support offered by the governments is consistent with aid provided to auto assemblers in the U.S.     Peapples said the company expects very strong demand in the next decade for the type of mid-size, front wheel drive car that will be produced at Ste. Therese.     Cote added that GM Canada's 1985 sales of 18.5 billion dlrs represented four pct of Canada's gross domestic product.  Reuter &#3;

