17-MAR-1987 13:07:30.87

PLAYBOY <PLA> HAS NO RESTRUCTURING PLANS

Playboy Enterprises Inc said it has no plans to restructure or to take the company private.     Moreover, Chairman Hugh Hefner, who owns 71 pct of the more than 9.4 mln shares outstanding, has no interest in selling his stock, spokeswoman Robyn Radomski said.      Articles in two weekly business publications have said Playboy is a takeover candidate because of what financial analysts see as its undervalued asset base.     Radomski said there were no corporate developments to account for the recent unusual trading in Playboy's shares but that there seemed to be a correlation with the two articles.     Playboy shares are currently trading at 13-5/8 on turnover of about 40,100 shares. For the past 52-weeks, the stock has traded in a range of 5-7/8 to 13-1/4 on light volume.     The reports, based on an asset evaluation by analyst Mark Boyar, place Playboy's worth at about 280 mln dlrs, or 30 dlrs a share. Boyar estimated Playboy's publishing to be worth about 130 mln dlrs, its product licensing, 50 mln dlrs, its real estate, including a mansion in Beverly Hills at 30 mln dlrs and its excess working capital after debt repayment of 70 mln dlrs, according to Business Week.     According to Boyar, the licensing division, Playboy mansion and artwork alone make the firm worth about 20 dlrs a share, the Forbes Magazine article said.     According to Advertising Age, the Playboy logo is the most recognized symbol after Coca Cola, another analyst noted.     Radomski, noting that the articles were written without contact with Playboy, said that "from time to time people do speculate about the company."     She said she had spoken with majority shareholder Hefner in the "last day or so" for a reaction to the articles.     American Securities analyst David Leibowitz believes "anyone who bought in thinking takeover or lbo (leveraged buyout) is likely to be disappointed because the chances are nil." Management has repeatedly stated it will not take the company private, he said.     But "shareholders who held the stock prior to all the publicity have gotten a heck of a ride for their money," he said.     Leibowitz said he also believes that the true asset value of the company is likely to exceed the current price of the stock. "But a leveraged buyout is not in the cards. I take management at their word," he said.     While Playboy's cable television operation is considered a drain on the company by some analysts, Liebowitz sees potential. "They do have a management plan for the cable operation and the company as a whole," he said. "Were this plan to, in fact, translate into reality, the opportunity for earnings is significant," he said.  Reuter &#3;

