19-JUN-1987 15:41:56.11

BRAZIL'S MOTOR INDUSTRY SUFFERS MAJOR SLOWDOWN

Brazil's crisis-ridden motor industry -- which is dominated by the subsidiaries of Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, Fiat Spa <FIAT.MI>, General Motor Corp <GM> and Ford Co <F> -- has not made a single domestic sale for the last four days, and several assembly lines will stop shortly, industry spokesmen said.     The motor manufacturers have been feeling the pinch for months, with demand slumping as the country heads into recession.     But the industry hit a fresh problem when dealers decided on Tuesday to stop buying any cars or trucks to protest high government taxes on vehicles. The dealers' decision was sparked by a 33 pct increase in car prices authorized last week by the government to cover industry's rising costs.     Spokesman Marcio Stefani of the Brazilian Association of Autmotive Vehicle Distributors said dealers felt their livelihood was at stake -- cars aren't selling because they cost too much.     "It is a question of our survival. The price of cars in Brazil has reached an insupportable level," he said. A GM Opala Diplomata, he said, costs 30,000 dlrs in Brazil, while an equivalent car in the United States would cost about 10,000 dlrs.     The National Association of Automotive Vehicle Manufacturers said that if the trade's boycott continues for another week, consequences will be serious.     Association spokesman Fred Carvalho told Reuters, "The consequences will first of all be collective holidays then lay-offs and a more and more catastrophic situation."     A spokesman for Ford Brasil said it would tell about half of its 21,000 workforce to take holidays June 29-July 13.     Fiat announced yesterday that it would give 2,000 workers a month's holiday, from July 6, halting production for the domestic market.     Carvalho said the industry was working at 3,500 vehicles a day, below its 1986 average of 4,700 and capacity of 5,100.     During last year's Cruzado Plan price freeze, feverish demand far outstripped supply. The industry says it could have sold many more cars than it produced, but was constrained by a lack of parts.     Today the picture is completely different after months of raging inflation and demand has all but disappeared.     Carvalho said the government taxes on cars added 138 pct to the cost of the vehicle. He described the taxes as "the highest in the universe and the galaxy."     Domestic car sales during the first five months of this year slipped to their lowest level for a decade, 241,632 units compared with 382,182 units during the same period last year.     On the bright side, exports are booming -- sales abroad in May totalled 242 mln dlrs, a record figure.     The motor industry is critical of the government of President Jose Sarney, which has gained a reputation as an indifferent manager of the economy.     Last month Volkswagen said it was postponing indefinitely investments of 150 mln dlrs planned for this year.     Wolfgang Sauer, president of Volkswagen do Brasil, said the government had created a crisis of confidence.     Brazil's motor industry employs more than 150,000 people.  Reuter &#3;

