13-MAR-1987 12:18:35.74

PROPOSALS TO RELAX U.S. DRUG LAWS POSE PROBLEMS

The Reagan Administration's soon-to-be published proposals to make experimental therapies more rapidly and widely available to terminally ill patients pose product liability problems for drug companies, experts in the pharmaceutical field said.     Details of the proposals will be published in the Federal Register shortly and will become effective after a 90-day comment period.     Under the proposed policy, announced Tuesday by Commissioner of Food and Drugs Frank E. Young at a press conference, patients with life threatening diseases who are not enrolled in clinical trials would be allowed access to an experimental therapy. The policy also allows drug companies to sell the promising drugs to patients.     Previously drugs like AZT could be rushed into wider use free-of-charge if the agent was shown to be effective. Under the new policy, the FDA could only refuse to permit a physician to administer an experimental drug if it was shown to be unsafe.     Financial analysts said the plan would likely benefit biotechnology companies with few or no products approved for marketing in the U.S., but would have little economic impact on large drug companies with many other sources of revenue.     "Charging a fee for still experimental drugs could help biotech companies' near-term financial situation and help make them less dependent on outside sources," said Teena Lerner, a biotech analyst at L.F. Rothchild.     Other observers were concerned that drug companies would be put into a legal bind if promising drugs later proved to have devastating side effects.     "Before a lot of drug companies release these drugs they are going to have to think long and hard about liability--the product liability problems are enormous," said a Washington-based lawyer who specializes in the drug field.     Patients in clinical trials normally sign lengthy informed consent papers before taking an investigational drug. The lawyer said no more than two cases had gone to trial for suits against a drug company's investigational drug.     "The new proposals are a whole new kettle of fish," said the lawyer. "Drug companies are right now probably meeting with their insurance companies."     Burroughs-Wellcome Co, the U.S. arm of the British firm Wellcome PLC that makes AZT, Merck and Co Inc <MRK>, Hoffman-LaRoche Inc and SmithKline Beckman Corp <SKB> said it was too soon to comment on the policy.     "I'm very uncomforable with this," said Wellcome spokeswoman Kathy Bartlett. "We haven't had a chance to formulate a response yet. It's too early."     But some financial analysts say the proposals would benefit drug companies.     "I find the proposal to be a very significant alteration of the FDA's past policies that should positively affect (drug companies') stocks," said drug analyst Davis Saks, with Morgan, Olmstead, Kennedy and Gardner.     Saks also warned that many health care providers would balk at the proposal, and would call it "amoral" to charge patients with life-threatening diseases for drugs that otherwise would be given out for free in clinical trials.     Jeffrey Warren, spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, which represents the major drug firms in the U.S., said "A mechanism already exists at the FDA permitting certain seriously ill patients access to experimental drugs and perhaps that system can be approved."     Warren acknowledged that the PMA may not be able to come up with a consensus among its membership when the rules are formally published.     He also admitted that product liability problems could be a concern to major drug companies.     Jeffrey Levi, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, which is actively in AIDS policy and funding issues, cited the drug Suramin from Bayer AG <BAYRY>, which had shown early promise as an AIDS treatment, but on wider clinical testing was shown to have deadly side effects.    Reuter &#3;

