19-OCT-1987 20:19:58.87

STOCK MARKET'S FALL MAY BE BAD OMEN FOR REPUBLICANS

Monday's stock market collapse could spell disaster for Republican hopes of retaining the White House in 1988 -- if it proves to be the start of a general economic downturn -- political experts said.     "The question is does the stock market (decline) signal an impending recession. If that is the case the Republicans will have a very difficult time winning," independent political analyst William Schneider told Reuters. "If the Democrats nominate anyone halfway credible they would win," he added.     Schneider's comments, on the heels of a 500-point decline in the bellwheter Dow Jones stock market average, reflected the old political adage that elections are almost always decided by voters' feelings about their financial well being.     "There is no doubt people always vote their pocketbook and we don't expect 1988 to be any different," says Donald Foley, the top spokesman for Missouri Representative Richard Gephardt's Democratic presidential campaign.     Foley added that the five-year old stock market rally has shown amazing resilience and "there's no telling where the market will be by the end of the week."     President Reagan said he was puzzled by the day's events, but is convinced the economy is fundamentally sound.     "I think everyone is puzzled ... because all the business indices are up. There is nothing wrong with the economy," he told reporters.     "I don't think anyone should panic because all the economic indicators are solid," he added.     But for the time being, the decline on Wall Street knocked the underpinnings from his boasts that the record bull market demonstrates the wisdom of current economic policy.     It could also deprive the Republicans of a major argument for keeping the White House in their hands when President Reagan leaves office in January 1989.     It gives a hollow ring to the words used by Vice President George Bush just a week ago when he formally entered the White House race.     "We have weathered the storm. Our economy has recovered to be the strongest in history," Bush said in reference to the recovery from the 1981-82 recession that pushed unemployment to its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s.     "We mark next week the longest peacetime economic expansion in our nation's recorded history," Bush bragged.     At midday, even as Wall Street was being battered by a record selling panic, Reagan gave a glowing account of the economy's performance at a swearing in ceremony for his new Commerce Secretary, William Verity.     Indeed, the Labor Department reported earlier this month that unemployment among American workers had fallen to an eight-year low of 5.9 pct in September, compared to seven pct a year ago and a Post World War Two peak of 10.7 pct in December 1982.     But with interest rates climbing steadily and no improvement in the record U.S. trade deficit with the rest of the world, a number of economic experts have expressed doubts about the staying power of the current expansion.    Warnings of economic danger around the corner have been a staple of Democratic campaign speeches this year.     And Democratic party leaders here for an organizational meeting two weeks ago predicted at that time that the economy would be the determining factor in next year's election.     "The 1988 election will be decided, as most peacetime elections are, on economic issues," said Michigan party chairman Richard Weiner.     "In Ohio, people are uneasy. They want to know where the economy is going," added Ohio Democratic leader James Ruvulo.     American political history is replete with examples of voters throwing out incumbent officeholders when the economy turns sour -- most notably in 1932 when Democrat Franklin Roosevelt won a landslide triumph that ended 12 years of Republican rule and made the Democrats the nation's majority party for more than 40 years.     But political experts said that if Monday's stock decline turns out to be a temporary phenomena it will have no effect on the 1988 election.     "Times change, conditions change," Schneider said.     Quoting legendary baseball manager Casey Stengel, Schneider added, "Never make predictions, especially about the future."  Reuter &#3;

