 1-JUN-1987 16:06:38.25

BRITISH AIRWAYS <BAB> SEES SMOOTH TRANSITION

British Airways is looking forward to industry deregulation in Europe and believes it will be a smoother transition than the turmoil that followed the opening of the U.S. skies, its chief executive said.     Colin Marshall told Reuters that Europe will phase in deregulation gradually to avoid the problems created in the U.S. in the late 1970s -- fast growth, unstable fares, new carriers that went bankrupt and ultimately years of losses for even the largest airlines.     "In Europe we have the benefit of learning from the American experience," Marshall said. "When you add that to the conservative nature of the Europeans, it amounts to an approach that is slower and more cautious."     Airline liberalization, as it is called, must first be approved by the transportation ministers of the European Community nations. This could come this month when the ministers meet to take it up, Marshall said in an interview during a U.S. visit to talk to airline industry analysts.     "As the largest airline in Europe, and with the sophisticated computer systems we have to help us with yield and load factors management, I think we have a very good chance, if not the best chance, of doing well in a liberalized situation in Europe," Marshall said.     Airline market deregulation in Europe will open up new routes between European countries, allow established carriers to grow and permit new airlines to begin operations.     It will also free airlines to fly more seats on any given route -- something that is highly regulated now -- and to base fares on market forces. Discount fares in Europe might even become more widespread.     "We think liberalization will help stimulate traffic," Marshall said.     Lower fares have been offered by British carriers since domestic services in Britain were deregulated in 1984, he said. But passengers taking return flights or from other countries pay higher, regulated prices.     Marshall said deregulation will spawn more European airlines, possibly to be followed by a spate of mergers, as is happening in the United States.     Two airlines, Sabena and Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS), are now discussing a merger. Their success "might open up Europe to further merger activity," he said.     This is because an SAS-Sabena merger could be a test case to determine whether countries are willing to allow landing rights to be transferred from one carrier to another, he said.  Reuter &#3;

