29-JUN-1987 17:07:09.33

U.S. HOUSING DEPT. BACKS PRIVATIZING FNMA <FNM>

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) said it backed an eventual severing of the link between the government and the Federal National Mortgage Association -- better known as Fannie Mae.     But the department, in a long-awaited report requested by Congress in 1984, shied from setting a timetable for the giant housing finance institution to end its government ties.    Instead, it said specific recommendations would come in a second report, to be issued jointly by Fannie Mae and HUD by Oct. 1.    "The basic policy directive underlying FNMA's history has been consistent -- a gradual movement toward fully private status. There appears to be no need to change that policy," the HUD report said.     Any change in Fannie Mae's status would be up to Congress.     The HUD report said the options open to Congress ranged from doing nothing to full and immediate privatization.     "Whatever option is selected, the combination of the favorable economic environment, FNMA's recent move to financial health, the current strength of the housing market and the evolution of FNMA's role in the mortgage market from contributor to competitor would all indicate that the time is ripe for a positive move toward privatization," the report concluded.     Fannie Mae operated as a part of the federal government from the time it was created in 1938 until 1968, when it was rechartered by Congress and put under private ownership with government backing.     However, "it was always intended that FNMA would eventually become fully private," the HUD report said.     Fannie Mae's critics, including some Reagan administration officials espousing a free-market philosophy, say government sponsorship of the agency allows it to compete unfairly with private lenders and investors.     But its backers claim mortgage rates would be pushed up as higher agency costs were eventually passed on to home buyers.     Fannie Mae was created by Congress to make capital available for housing by buying mortgages from lenders and packaging them as securities to sell investors.  Reuter &#3;

