18-JUN-1987 05:00:09.15

JAPAN FINISHING UP WORK ON SUPPLEMENTARY BUDGET

The Finance Ministry is putting the finishing touches on a roughly 2,000 billion yen supplementary budget for 1987/88 and has started to turn its attention to next year's main budget, ministry officials said.     The supplementary budget is designed to help finance the 6,000 billion yen emergency economic package the government unveiled last month to boost domestic demand.     Ministry officials said the government would issue about 1,300 billion yen in construction bonds to help pay for the increased public investment set out in the emergency package.     The rest of the supplementary budget will be financed by 450 billion yen in proceeds from last year's sale of shares in Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT) and by higher than expected 1986/87 tax revenues, officials said.     One official said the carry-over of tax revenues into the 1987/88 fiscal year that began on April 1 might be more than 1,000 billion yen. Soaring land and share prices have boosted receipts, especially from securities and land taxes.     With less than half of the carry-over likely to be used in the current supplementary budget, the rest will be available for a second supplementary budget expected later this year.     The second supplementary budget will be used to finance the government's wage bill, which will not be known until after wage talks later this year, one official said.     The government must also finance the tax cut of more than 1,000 billion yen which it promised in its emergency package but which will not be contained in the first supplementary budget, due to be presented to parliament next month.     The Finance Ministry's budget bureau is hoping the tax carry-over and higher than expected revenues again this year will be enough to finance the second supplementary budget, he said.     Officials said the Finance Ministry does not want to issue deficit-financing bonds or use the extra proceeds from this year's NTT share sale to fund the second supplementary budget.     Besides the first supplementary budget, the government also intends to introduce a new tax reform bill to parliament during the upcoming extraordinary session, officials said.     The government was forced to abandon its first tax reform bill due to strong opposition to its plan to introduce a five pct sales tax.     The sales tax was designed to help finance cuts in individual and corporate income taxes.     The new bill will present the 1,000 billion yen-plus tax cut contained in the emergency package as the first step to an overhaul of the country's tax system, officials said.     It will also contain a controversial plan to phase out tax breaks on savings, although it may not take effect in October as originally planned, they said.     Looking ahead to next year's main budget, the Finance Ministry is beginning to debate whether to abandon its so-called minus ceiling for public investment.     That policy calls on government departments to cut public investment spending by five pct per year.     Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo said recently the policy would be suspended in 1988/89, pending a recommendation from the government's administrative reform council.     The ruling Liberal Democratic Party said in April that budget request guidelines for invesment expenditures would be reviewed.     But some officials at the Finance Ministry's budget bureau said they were hopeful the policy would be retained.     They fear that a suspension of the guidelines for public investment could lead to increased pressure on the government to loosen its grip on current expenditures as well.     The account would also extend interest-free loans to profitable public works projects developed in conjunction with the private sector, the officials said.     In this way, the Finance Ministry could meet growing pressure on it to boost capital spending while maintaining a tight grip on outlays by other government departments.     Surplus funds from this year's sale of NTT shares could total about 3,000 billion yen. Based on the current market price, the planned sale of 1.95 mln shares would raise more than 5,000 billion yen, compared to about 2,000 billion planned for in the main 1987/88 budget.  REUTER &#3;

