16-MAR-1987 14:14:03.21

SEC OKAYS BOESKY FIRMS' MOVE TO PROTECT FUNDS

The Securities and Exchange Commission approved a request by two firms controlled by inside trader Ivan Boesky that allows them to take steps to protect hundreds of millions of dollars from potential claimants.     The SEC granted requests made by Seemala Partners L.P. and IFB Managing Partnership L.P., to withdraw as registered brokers, effective March 12.     With the action, the partnerships are no longer subject to the SEC's net capital rules requiring them to remain solvent as brokerage firms. Seemala argued the move would be necessary if noteholders of Ivan Boesky and Co L.P. are to be repaid.     In asking the SEC to speed its withdrawal as a registered broker, Seemala said it wold repay to Boesky and Co, which is also controlled by the former Wall Street arbitrageur, 660 mln dlrs in subordinated debt, plus accrued interest.     IFB Managing Partners, which was also given approval to withdraw as a broker, has no significant assets, the SEC said.     Once it is repaid, Boesky and Co will pay 200 mln dlrs in senior participating notes and 440 mln dlrs in subordinated participating notes of Hudson Funding Corp to certain noteholders, Seemala told the SEC.     Under the planned repayment scheme, Seemala told the SEC the noteholders would forgo claims of prepayment penalties and some additional interest amounting to more than 100 mln dlrs.     The plan would be in the public interest, Seemala argued, since the noteholders, many of which are savings and loan institutions and insurance companies, would receive repayment of the principal on their notes.     Seemala also argued that the plan would help the limited partners of Boesky and Co, who were not charged in the Boesky insider trading scandal, by protecting its remaining equity from the noteholders' claims.     Unless the Boesky firms are allowed to complete the repayment plan, Seemala said Boesky and Co noteholders would seek total claims of 116.8 mln dlrs, plus 9.2 mln dlrs to 10.6 mln dlrs a month in addition, in addition to other claims.     Such claims could wipe out Boesky and Co's assets before other creditors can establish their claims, Seemala said.     The only opposition to Seemala's Feb 12 request to withdraw as a broker came from Berger and Montague P.C., counsel for the plaintiffs in a class action suit against Seemala and other defendants. The suit involves charges stemming from Boesky's insider trading in the stock of several major companies.     Berger and Montague told the SEC it opposes the Seemala proposal because it would allow Boesky and Co noteholders to settle their claims ahead of the plaintiffs in the class action and because Seemala did not disclose the total amount of claims against it and what percentage defrauded investors would get.     Seemala has said that its repayment scheme would leave a pool of about 278 mln dlrs free of claims from Boesky and Co noteholders which could satisfy other claimants.     The pool would be in addition to funds placed in escrow under insider trading settlement agreements, including 11.4 mln dlrs from Dennis Levine and 50 mln dlrs from Boesky.     In approving the request, the SEC barred Seemala and Boesky and Co from making any distributions to its limited partners for one year and required limited partners who receive distributions to agree to make themselves liabile up to a point in any case filed the partnerships.     The SEC also required Seemala and Boesky and Co to get confirmation of their assets from a nationally recognized accounting firm.     The agency said Boesky and Co and existing and potential claimants against it have similar interests in eliminating major creditors and preserving assets for future claims.  Reuter &#3;

