31-MAR-1987 13:40:49.95

PENNZOIL <PZL> WILL CONSIDER SETTLEMENT OFFER

Pennzoil Co Chairman J. Hugh Liedtke told a meeting of securities analysts that the company will consider any realistic settlement offer in its 11.0 billion dlr ongoing litigation with Texaco Inc <TX>.     "I wish I could tell you that I am optimistic about the chances (of a settlement), but I am not," Liedtke said. "I assure you, however, that we will continue to try."     He said that Pennzoil has made a number of settlement offers to Texaco both before the litigation commenced and after, but the offers were repeatedly rejected. He said Texaco has made no realistic offers.     Earlier this year, a Texas court of appeals upheld Pennzoil's claim against Texaco, ruling that Texaco unlawfully interfered with Pennzoil's merger agreement with Getty Oil. Texaco subsequently acquired Getty.     Liedtke said it has become more difficult to settle the case because the courts continually rule in its favor, raising the stakes of any agreement.     "Each time this goes up (to a higher court), the expectations of our shareholders goes up and it puts us in an increasingly difficult positon," he said.     "We cannot afford to settle this case for a pittance," Liedtke told the meeting of analysts.     "We don't want to get sued for not fulfilling our fiduciary responsibilities," he said.     Liedtke also said that the company would not settle for less than two billion dlrs, which has been suggested by a number of Wall Street analysts.     He did say, however, that Pennzoil would entertain any proposal from Texaco including a possible preferred stock position in TExaco.     "I won't assume we'll take it," he said. "But we'd consider it." But he added that he thought it would be extremely difficult to work out a settlement made up of stocks, bonds and cash.     Liedtke, who earlier said the company would have a lower first quarter, also told reporters that the company expected lower earnings this year.     "We think earnings will probably be down this year," he said. Last year the company earned 1.28 dlrs a share from continuing operations or 68.5 mln dlrs on revenues of 1.9 billion dlrs.     The earnings figure comes before an extraordinary loss of 56 cts a share or 23.1 mln dlrs.   Reuter &#3;

