12-MAR-1987 16:10:34.19

WHITE HOUSE DETAILS CREDIT REFORM LEGISLATION

The Reagan Administration sent to Congress proposed legislation that would require Congress to reflect the cost of federal loan subsidies in the government's budget.     The legislation would require Congress to approve all subsidies on loans, to sell off many loans to the private sector shortly after they are made and to buy private reinsurance for many guaranteed loans.     White House officials estimated reinsurance premiums  could amount to six billion dlrs a year to private companies.     The bill would make little impact on the federal deficit or payroll, officials said.     The legislation would not in itself alter the terms of federal credit programs.     But officials said they would be pleased if Congress tightened some programs after seeing their true cost set out in the budget.     The program would call for the immediate sale of many newly made direct federal loans, but would no effect existing federal loan portfolios. Some of these are already proposed to be sold off under previous administration programs.     Exempt from the sale requirement would be loans made under the Commodity Credit Corp commodity loan program, which the government considers to be a commodity purchase program rather than a credit program, and defaulted guaranteed loans, which the government considers to be the same as direct loans.     Also excluded from the sale requirement would be most foreign loans, though officials said they may at some point consider selling off some Export-Import Bank loans.     Officials said government loan programs currently amount to about 252 billion dlrs in direct loans and 450 billion dlrs in guaranteed loans a year.     Officials said U.S. agencies were asked to calculate the approximate cost of their loan subsidies by looking at comparable loans in the marketplace.     The administration is asking Congress to begin reflecting the cost of these subsidies in the fiscal 1988 budget, which the House Budget Committee plans to begin marking up late next week.     Officials said the reforms, if adopted across-the-board by all affected congressional committees, would lower the federal deficit by only 100 mln dlrs in fiscal 1988.     Officials said the administration hopes to sell a total of 13.0 billion dlrs in loan assets during fiscal 1988, including 1.8 billion dlrs in loan assets under the credit reform program and 11.2 billion dlrs in loan assets already in the governemnt's portfolion.     In fiscal 1989, the administration hopes to sell 8.9 billion dlrs in loans, including 1.3 billion dlrs of loans under the credit reform program and 7.6 billion dlrs from the existing portfolio.  Reuter &#3;

