29-JUN-1987 16:25:01.14

TEXACO (QTX) MAY BENEFIT FROM SEC BRIEF

The Securities and Exchange Commission's entry into the battle between Texaco Inc and Pennzoil Co <PZL> could affect the outcome of the 10.3 billion dlr legal saga, some analysts said.     Texaco today said the SEC would file a "friend of the court" brief on the tender offer rule as it pertains to the case. Some analysts construed this as positive for Texaco since they said it is alleged by Texaco that Pennzoil violated the rule, and the issue was not thoroughly addressed in lower Texas courts.     Texaco's stock rose 1-1/2 to 39-3/8 and Pennzoil fell four to 78-7/8. A Pennzoil attorney would not comment. He said the SEC rule, 10b-13, is part of Texaco's argument in its request for a Texas Supreme Court case, and that the matter has been previously addressed in court. Pennzoil said it knew of the SEC brief but it did not know whether the brief would support the view of one litigant or be an inquiry and request for clarification of the reasons for two lower state court decisions.     Texaco today said the SEC would urge the Texas Supreme Court to accept the case for review with respect to the issue.     Texaco has alleged Pennzoil violated the rule when it had a tender offer for Getty Oil Co outstanding and then made an alleged agreement on January 3, 1984, to buy Getty shares.     Analysts said the SEC tender offer rule prevents those making the offer from entering into contracts for the target company's stock. Frederick Leuffer of C.J. Lawrence believes SEC intervention could be meaningful but acknowledged it could also have no affect. "If this friend of the court brief is potent and clearly pro-Texaco, and is taken into account by the Texas Supreme Court, there is a chance the entire judgment could be reversed and Pennzoil gets nothing," Leuffer said.     Texaco and Pennzoil have been locked in a bitter legal battle over Texaco's acquisition of Getty Oil. A Texas court awarded Pennzoil a record 10.53 billion dlrs in damages, later reduced by two billion dlrs. With interest, the award now totals 10.3 billion dlrs.     Texaco filed for protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws earlier this year. Its action was designed to avoid having a Texas appeals court order it to post a security bond for the entire amount of the Pennzoil judgement.     Texaco earlier said the SEC will file its brief the week of July 20.     In his comments, Leuffer also reflected the views of other analysts who believe are not convinced the SEC will play a significant role. "The other argument is the court will ignore it (the SEC brief) as it has all the other friend of the court briefs," he said.     Kidder Peabody and Co analyst Marc Cohen said he does not expect the SEC's brief to change the direction of the case. "Everyday, you're going to see something like this," Cohen said.     Texaco lawyer Jim Sales said it was only logical to believe that the SEC would have sought to intervene in the case if it believed the 10b-13 rule was involved. "I think what the market sensed today is that there is a reminder here for Pennzoil that they may reach for the stars and fall on their face," Sales said. "They (Pennzoil) have won every case in Texas," said Joel Fischer of Drexel Burnham Lambert. But Fischer and other analysts said SEC involvement may raise questions of federal law that could help Texaco take its case to the U.S. Supreme Court if the Texas court does not reverse the lower opinions or refuses to hear its case.     Analysts said the lower courts did not give much weight to the 10b-13 issue.     Sales said the point was argued and the courts "acknowledged that it was there but they really ignored the legal affect of what the regulation required, and we hope we can correct that misimpression".     Wall Street analysts and arbitragers speculated on many possible outcomes. One arbitrager said there was concern that Texaco and Pennzoil could settle for a lower sum than demanded by Pennzoil.     "The SEC stepping in on this issue as an amicus curiae (friend of the court) has a lot of arbitragers a little bit disturbed," said Cohen.     "What you're seeing is a continual chess game. Every slight move down the road could have a multiplying effect," he said.  Reuter &#3;

