 5-MAR-1987 12:26:42.92

POLISH TRADE OFFICIAL CALLS FOR FREER MARKET

Deputy Foreign Trade Minister Janusz Kaczurba told Reuters that Poland would have to diverge from traditional Communist bloc centrally-planned economic policies if it wanted to bring about economic renewal and compete in world markets.     Stressing his commitment to a series of reforms recently introduced to streamline the economy and boost export-oriented industry, he also called for an expansion in the role of the private sector.     Asked whether the policies the government was advocating did not represent a departure from the strictly controlled economic model within the Soviet bloc, he said in an interview with Reuters "I don't see any alternative but to try to proceed along the lines of economic reasoning."     He referred specifically to bankruptcies, which he said would be "the logical outcome of a more stringent economic policy," once the state stopped propping up enterprises to guarantee jobs, regardless of how inefficient they were.     He added, "We should follow the policy of creating a system whereby managers will be really responsible for the overall economic effect of enterprises. This can be done in one way only, through the reduction of subsidies."     But he also noted the need to curtail bureaucracy of branch ministries, allow domestic prices to reflect the world market, make foreign exchange rates more realistic, provide incentives to export-oriented industry and encourage private business.     Kaczurba was talking to Reuters about the effect on the economy of U.S. Sanctions imposed in 1982 in response to the suppression of the Solidarity trade union under martial law.     He acknowledged that Poland's economic decline would add to its problems in trying to regain markets and support from Western creditors even after Washington lifted remaining restrictions and restored Most Favoured Nation trading status last month.      Western officials say Polish goods have to be more competitive and of better quality in the face of trade wars and protectionism amongst U.S., Japanese and European competitors.     Reaffirming the government's view that the key to solving some of those problems and meeting payments on a 33.5 billion dlr foreign debt lay in increasing hard currency exports, Kaczura said private enterprise could play a greater role.     "I think we could have some 20,000 small private enterprises active in export-oriented business if such operators are successfully convinced that the policy towards the (private) sector is stabilised," he said.     Poland already has a more developed private sector than most other East European countries.     Among economic reforms already under way, Kaczurba listed easier access to hard currency profits, tax incentives, access to investment credits and two devaluations of the zloty to increase competitivity of prices.     He said such policies had been welcomed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, through which Poland is hoping to gain new credits, but Poles were caught in a "vicious circle."     Creditors wanted proof that the policies were directed towards improving exports, but in order to fulfil their expectations Poland first needed fresh inputs, he said.  REUTER &#3;

