31-MAR-1987 12:37:45.33

U.S. TAX AGENCY INCREASES INTERNATIONAL AUDITS

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) said it was stepping up compliance efforts by its international staff to recover some of the billions of dollars lost each year in unpaid taxes.     The agency was shifting emphasis by its international branch to increase compliance by the 47,000 foreign-owned American companies and foreign firms operating in the United States, IRS officials said at a news conference.     The IRS also was taking a closer look at compliance by Americans living abroad and by taxpayers in the United States with income from overseas investments.     Percy Woodard, assistant IRS commissioner, international, denied that the agency was picking on foreign companies, but he said fewer of them pay taxes than comparable U.S. firms.     In some industries, one pct of foreign firms paid U.S. taxes, he said. Other IRS staff said the taxes paid by foreign companies ranged from 16 to 19 pct less than taxes paid by U.S. firms.     "If our taxpayers in another country are expected to fulfill their tax-paying responsibilities in that country, then foreigners in our country can be expected to do the same thing," Woodard said.     In addition, as many as 61 pct of the 2.5 mln Americans who live abroad do not file tax returns, costing the government 2.3 billion dlrs a year, Woodard said.     The total tax gap -- the difference between taxes owed and actually paid to the government -- is about 90 billion dlrs.     Millions of dollars are lost because Americans fail to report foreign income and because U.S. businesses with foreign operations can underreport income, Woodard said.     The IRS will increase compliance by reassigning 100     examiners to international tax returns, a 25-pct increase, which should lead to more tax return audits.     The IRS will study entire industries to spot trends or practices by foreign-owned companies in their compliance with tax laws, Woodard said.     The IRS looked at the electronics industry first, but Woodard denied it was because of the trade dispute over semiconductors between the United States and Japan.     The agency next will turn its attention to the automobile, computer and motorcycle industries.     The IRS will also receive information on anyone who applies for a U.S. passport or permanent residence in the United States to help indentify those who do not file returns.  Reuter &#3;

