29-JUN-1987 15:12:38.33

EPA TO REJECT CLEAN-AIR PLANS FOR 14 AREAS

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced plans to disapprove clean-air plans for 14 metropolitan areas and called for bans in those areas on new construction of potentially polluting facilties.     EPA Administrator Lee Thomas said in a statement the areas had not shown they could meet agency ozone or carbon-monoxide air-quality standards by the end of 1987 or soon after.     He said the proposed ban on construction would cover such industries as electric utilities, iron and steel production plants, industrial boilers and petroleum refineries.     The areas affected are Chicago; the Indiana portion of the Chicago area; East St. Louis, Ill.; the Indiana portion of the Louisville, Ky., area; Cleveland, Ohio; Atlanta, Ga.; Dallas-Ft. Worth, Tex.; Denver, Colo.; the California south coast, including Los Angeles; Fresno, Sacramenta, Ventura and Kern counties, Calif., and Washoe County (Reno), Nev.     Thomas also proposed major changes to existing sources of pollution in those areas.  They would effective after a final assessment of the area's pollution, expected late this year or early next.     For Cleveland, the EPA also proposed a restriction on federal highway funding and clean-air grants because the state of Ohio did not provide for adequate testing to curb car pollutions as required by the Clean AirAct.     Thomas said:     "It is clear that the state implementation plans for these areas will not achieve federal ozone or carbon-monoxide standards under the deadline mandated by Congress. In these circumstances the Clean Air Act leaves no discretion.  I must propose sanctions."     The EPA estimated that another 20 metropolitan areas will fail to meet the agency's ozone standards by the end of the year. About 70 are meeting the ozone standards.     It added that about 80 areas are now not meeting the EPA carbon-monoxide standards, but only a few will have long-term problems in meeting the standards.     The EPA has proposed that car-makers be ordered to install canisters on new cars beginning in 1979 to capture polluting gasoline vapors which escape when gas is pumped from filling stations to a car's gas tank.  reuter &#3;

