31-MAR-1987 17:44:46.90

IMF SEES INDUSTRIAL NATIONS GROWING ONLY 2.5 PCT

The International Monetary Fund predicts that the industrial world will grow a sluggish 2.5 pct in 1987, a sharp drop from the more than three pct forecast six months ago, monetary sources said.     The forecasts, prepared by the IMF staff, will form the basis of a debate on economic policy coordination by officials of top industrial nations at high-level meetings next week.     The sources said the IMF predicts an expansion of just 2.5 pct in the U.S., shaving a full one point off its original 1987 forecast, released last fall.     The figures will be discussed by the IMF's executive board before going to the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee here next week and may be subject to slight revision, they said.     The Reagan administration has forecast 3.2 pct U.S. economic growth this year while more pessimistic Fed officials are predicting 2.5 to three pct.     The sources said the IMF also predicts growth of around  2.5 pct in West Germany, and 2.8 pct in Japan.     Washington has extracted promises from both West Germany and Japan that they will take measures to bolster their domestic economic growth, to help reduce the massive gap between their huge trade surpluses and the record American trade deficit.     Poor economic growth figures in these two nations and the U.S. are likely to do little to reassure currency markets.     In recent days, the dollar has come under heavy selling pressure as markets have grown cynical that Bonn and Tokyo will take early action.     With no economic stimulus in sight, financial markets have reduced the dollar's value to levels that are more likely to balance U.S. trade, monetary analysts say.     Monetary sources also said the IMF forecasts overall growth in developing nations of around three pct this year, with developing countries in the western hemisphere -- the Caribbean, Central and South America -- expanding 3.3 pct.     In its recent annual report, the Inter-American Development Bank said Latin American nations need to expand between four and five pct this year to service their 382 billion dlrs of foreign debt.     Non-oil exporting Third World nations should achieve an expansion of around four per cent while oil exporting nations will average almost no growth at all, the sources said.     Also short of the mark is the level of industrial country growth. Western officials maintain the industrial world needs to expand at least three per cent annually -- against this year's initial IMF prediction of 2.5 pct -- in order to support the export drive of debtor nations.     Exports provide the indebted world, which owes western creditors some 900 billion dlrs, with its principal source of foreign exchange for debt repayments.     In other forecasts, the IMF put overall global growth at about 2.8 pct and output in the seven leading industrial nations at around 2.5 pct.     The seven -- the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- have become the main forum for coordination of medium-term economic policies in the industrial world. The prediction for the seven is also around 2.5 pct growth in 1987.     The Fund put Canadian growth at about 2.7 pct, the French expansion at 2.9 pct and Britain at 2.8 pct.     The figures will be discussed as part of an overall debate on the World Economic Outlook and the U.S. debt strategy by the Interim Committee.     Those talks are one of several meetings between top economic officials of industrial and developing nations during the semi-annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank.  Reuter &#3;

