 1-APR-1987 12:08:12.11

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS BRAZIL NOT IN CRISIS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he did not believe Brazil was currently in a crisis because of its debt situation and hoped the country would resolve its differences with commerical banks through direct negotiations.     Answering questions before a House appropriations subcommittee, Baker told a questioner, "I disagree with your crisis characterization" regarding Brazil.     He said that while the U.S. Treasury regretted Brazil's interest payment moratorium on commercial bank debt, "We hope and believe they'll resolve this through direct negotiations (with the banks)."     Baker said the financial community around the world believes it imperative that Brazil come up with a comprehensive program to adjust its economy.     In other comments on foreign debt, Baker said the situation has improved since mid-1982 because the banks are in much better shape and have rebuilt reserves.     He also noted interest rates are considerably lower today than they were when the crisis broke out and the rate of increase in debt has slowed considerably.     In addition, Baker noted a number of debtors are making reasonably good economic progress, and he cited Mexico in particular.     He pointed out that Venezuela, Chile and the Philippines have all reached agreement with commercial banks on debt rescheduling and Argentina was in the midst of negotiations.     But he rejected calls for "overnight solutions" to the debt crisis. "There is no chance they can get out (of the debt crisis)," Baker said, unless debtor countries generate economic growth.     Baker said the U.S. initiative to shore up debtor nations depends on that concept, and he rejected calls for debt forgiveness, which, he said, would cut debtor nations off from access to private credit.     Baker noted that even though Sen. Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) was urging debt relief in his strategy for dealing with the debt situation, "More and more now, he bases this on the concept of growth."     Other indicators of progress include, Baker said, debtor nations negotiating better and better terms with commercial banks. "The points over LIBOR are much less," he said.  Reuter &#3;

