 7-APR-1987 19:22:10.47

RUDING SAYS BANKS, DEBTORS SHOULD TAKE LEAD

Dutch Finance Minister Onno Ruding said there was a growing feeling in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund that commercial banks and debtor countries should take a greater lead in assembling new financing packages.     "The IMF and the Bank may be less inclined to put together large packages like Mexico," Ruding told reporters in a briefing on this week's semi-annual IMF and World Bank talks.     Ruding, who is also chairman of the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee, said he was reflecting a feeling within the two institutions.     Asked whether his comments reflected a feeling the institutions were being unduly pressured by the Reagan administration, Ruding replied "we should not go in the direction of politicisation of the two institutions."     Ruding said "no country large or small should push in that direction."  He said he expected commercial bank lending to debtors to come in for some criticism for the slow pace of lending recently. Ruding also said he did not expect any major initiatives to develop a larger commercial bank role in the debt strategy or any new proposals for dealing with the debt crisis itself.     In other remarks, Ruding said many countries supported a General Capital Increase for the World Bank and he expected Bank president Barber Conable also to express his support.     The U.S. has said it is opposed to a GCI at present.     Ruding said the Interim Committee Communique would support the use of indicators to assist multilateral surveillance but would stop short of supporting U.S. proposals for automatic consultations if indicators were sharply out of line with policy objectives. Monetary sources say the U.S. has suggested establishing "norms" or automatic triggers for consultations among industrial states if policies deviate from plan.     Currently the plan also has the support of France, the Netherlands and Italy while Britain, Japan and West Germany are all opposed.  Reuter &#3;

