 5-MAR-1987 09:02:50.88

U.S. EXPANSION THREATENED - CONGRESSIONAL REPORT

The U.S. economy is facing several serious problems which threaten its continued expansion, according to a Congressional report released today.     The report by the Democratic majority of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee said the outlook was for sluggish growth in the U.S. and the rest of the world for the near future.     Committee Republicans released a separate, more optimistic report predicting continued stable growth with low inflation.     Democrats have a 12 to eight majority on the committee, which is made up of 10 Senators and 10 Representatives.     "The annual report of the committee surveys a 3.7 trillion dlr economy whose tranquil appearance obscures the danger signals that lie just below the surface," Committee chairman Sen. Paul Sarbanes said in a statement.     "A close inspection of the economy reveals that the current recovery, while long, is fragile, and we are skating on thin ice," the Maryland Democrat said.     He said the danger signals included a decline in investment, increased demand for borrowing which was straining the financial system, a possible increase in inflation fueled by higher oil prices and the depressed condition of the nation's farmers.     Republicans said most private economists saw no likelihood of a recession and were predicting a growth rate of around three pct for this year and next, similar to Administration forecasts.     "The economy appears to be on a path of stable growth. We're comfortable with the current low rate of inflation, hopeful that interest rates will continue to decline, optimistic that employment opportunities will continue to improve and confident in this nation's resilient, innovative and diversified economy," the Republican report said.     "The greatest economic challenge facing the 100th Congress is reducing the federal deficit," the Republicans added.     Democrats said the budget deficit should be reduced but also wanted the government to spend more on education, job training, research and development and health care.     They said pressures on the dollar might make it difficult for the Federal Reserve to use monetary policy to stimulate the economy if this becomes necessary.     "There is now substantial concern about the inflationary effects of a declining dollar and the buildup of monetary pressure arising from the recent rapid growth in the money supply," the Democrat report said.     "At the same time, the increased reliance on foreign sources of capital in American investment markets means that the Federal Reserve can no longer be as aggressive as in the past in lowering interest rates and driving the dollar down."     "Taken together, the outlook for fiscal and monetary policy is thus not very encouraging," the Democrats said.     The Democrats called on the Administration to be more aggressive in removing foreign trade barriers and in seeking new initiatives to solve the international debt problem.     The Democrats said much of the U.S. trade deficit had been caused by misalignment of the world's currencies, especially the overvaluation of the dollar that began in 1982.     Both Democrats and Republicans called for policies to increase American productivity including incentives for saving and investment in plant and equipment and development of a better educated work force.  Reuter &#3;

