13-APR-1987 15:04:48.70

COURT DISMISSES FMC <FMC> SUIT AGAINST BOESKY

FMC Corp's 225 mln dlr insider trading case against Wall Street arbitrageur Ivan Boesky was dismissed by a federal court, a court clerk said.     Federal Judge Ann C. Williams, in an oral ruling, said FMC had not been harmed by trading in FMC stock by Boesky and other traders prior to FMC's two-billion dlr recapitalization last year.     FMC had claimed insider trading by Boesky had forced it to increase the value of the recapitalization to 80 dlrs a share from 70 dlrs a share.     FMC had charged that Boesky received confidential information about FMC's planned recapitalization from Dennis Levine, a former merger specialist with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.     An FMC spokeswoman said in response to an inquiry that FMC might appeal the ruling, made in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, once a formal written decision is received. The written ruling is expected April 15.     The spokeswoman said FMC might appeal alleged contract violations involved in the dispute. That part of the case, involving a contract between FMC and Goldman Sachs and Co, would be appealed to an Illinois state court, she said.     Goldman Sachs was FMC's investment banker in its planned restructuring. A FMC spokeswoman said the contract was a standard contract under which Goldman Sachs advised FMC on the restructuring.     "We are certainly taking a look at appealing" the ruling in Illinois state court, the FMC spokeswoman said in response to an inquiry.     The suit claimed that Boesky bought 95,300 FMC shares between February 18 and February 21, 1986, selling those shares for a profit of 975,000 dlrs on February 21, the day FMC first said it was considering a recapitalization.     Also, the suit said Boesky bought a further 1,922,000 FMC shares between March 12 and April four, acknowledging the purchase of a 7.5 pct stake in the company in a 13-D filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April seven.     "We alleged his actions kept the stock price artificially high and put pressure on FMC to increase the terms of the recapitalization," the FMC spokeswoman said.     The increase to 80 dlrs from 70 dlrs a share was announced April 26.  Reuter &#3;

