18-JUN-1987 05:25:17.48

EC FARM MINISTERS END MEETING WITHOUT PRICE ACCORD

European Community farm ministers plunged the bloc into a crisis today by ending a marathon negotiation on 1987/88 farm prices without agreement.     Their chairman, Belgian Paul de Keersmaeker, told a press conference this morning ministers gave a majority vote in favour of all aspects of an EC Commission compromise proposal introduced on Tuesday.     However, the minority against the crucial plan for a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats was big enough to block its adoption, and British Agriculture Minister John MacGregor said other aspects of the proposals are likely to be vetoed.     MacGregor said the meeting foundered in part because of an implicit indication from the West Germans that they were prepared to veto two other aspects of the package, the future monetary compensatory amounts system and proposals directly connected with common prices.     De Keersmaeker said he will now consider when ministers should be called for further talks, but diplomats said the outcome of the meeting makes it almost certain the major outstanding issues will be referred to EC heads of government who hold a summit meeting on June 29 and 30 in Brussels.     A Commission official said the Commission will work out stopgap measures which it will bring in on July 1 if the deadlock persists. These will concern products such as cereals, colza, sugar, beef and milk, for which there would otherwise be no legal EC regulations from that date.     Trade sources expect these will include a seven pct cut in guaranteed prices for most cereals.     The official said the measures "will take into account the situation in the market, but also the EC's severe budgetary situation."     The Commission was expecting an EC budget deficit this year of almost six billion dlrs even before it presented its compromise, which would have cost almost one billion more. It estimates the oils and fats tax would bring in 2.3 billion dlrs in a full year.     Diplomats said Britain, West Germany and the Netherlands maintained their opposition to the tax despite Commission attempts to persuade them it would not unfairly hit exports from countries outside the EC.     They added Denmark did not formally state its final position but was understood to remain against.  REUTER &#3;

