13-MAR-1987 13:49:23.83

CAESARS WORLD <CAW> RESTRUCTURING SEEN

Caesars World Inc is likely to seek out a friendly suitor or restructure operations to fight off the unsolicited takeover offer by investor Martin Sosnoff, securities analysts said.     "They could be talking to a "white knight" right now," said Janney Scott Montgomery Inc analyst Marvin Roffman, adding. "That would be my best guess."     Analysts also said other options for Caesars could include a restructuring or a buyback of Sosnoff's 13.6 pct holdings.     Earlier today, Caesars World announced that its board unanimously rejected a 28 dlr per share, or 725.2 mln dlr, takeover offer from MTS Acquisition Corp, a company formed by Sosnoff.     The company also said it will explore a variety of alternative transactions but did not elaborate.     In announcing the rejection, Caesars said the offer was inadequate given the company's financial condition, future prospects and current market conditions.     A Caesars spokesman said the company expects to file a 14D-9 with the Securities and Exchange Commission later today with more information on its analysis of the Sosnoff offer.     Analysts are generally bullish on the outlook for Caesars World and some have placed the value of Caesars stock at from 32 to 35 dlrs per share.     They have also asserted that Sosnoff is not likely to succeed with the unsolicited bid unless he raises his offering price to a higher level.     Caesars World's stock is up 1-1/8 today at 29-1/8.     Janney Montgomery's Roffman believes potential suitors for the hotel/casino company could be Golden Nugget Inc <GNG>, or Tracinda Corp, a company controlled by investor Kirk Kirkorian.     Golden Nugget has a good deal of cash on hand as the result of the sale of its Atlantic City, N.J., casino to Bally Manufacturing Corp <BLY>, Roffman said.     Earlier this month Golden Nugget completed its sale of the Atlantic City property for 440 mln dlrs.     Roffman also believes Kerkorian is interested in getting involved in the gaming business.     Mark Manson, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette, said options available to Ceasars also include a restructuring in the form of a selloff of individual properties, a stock buyback or forming a master limited partnership.     "Very few of these options would weaken the value of the company," Manson said, but he declined to speculate on which approach Caesars might take.  Reuter &#3;

