 9-MAR-1987 08:58:22.38

TECHNOLOGY/NEW ERA FOR INFORMATION HANDLING

Ground-breaking new systems for storing and retrieving information are ushering in a new era for computer companies and computer users.     Within the past few weeks, International Business Machines Corp <IBM>, Eastman Kodak Co <EK> and others have launched products that radically increase the amount of data that can be catalogued and shelved in computerized libraries.     "This flurry of new technology could yield systems that handle a multimedia blitz of data," said Ian Warhaftig, a senior analyst with International Data Corp, Framingham, Mass.     "We're developing new systems because our customers are asking for them," Peter Giles, vice president and general manager of Kodak's mass memory division, said in a recent interview.     This demand is expected to soar in coming years. While estimates vary, industry analysts project that providing products and services geared for information storage and retrieval could become a 20 billion dlr a year business by 1995.     A wide range of technologies will be needed to meet the varying requirements of users.     For example, a large credit verification service would want a system from which it could quickly retrieve credit data and relay it to its clients. A law firm, however, may need a computerized law library in which capacity, rather than speed, is the key feature. For architects and engineers, the ability to store photographs, sketches and other graphics would be crucial.     Regardless of the specific application, the trend is toward converting information - documents, video or film or even sound recordings - into to the digital language of zeros and ones understood by computers.     Saving space is the key goal in digitizing data for storage. An optical disk the size of a standard compact disk can store 550 megabytes of data, or about 250,000 pages of typewritten text.     For this reason, the compact disk read-only memory, or CD-ROM, is already a popular data storage media. Last week, Microsoft introduced Microsoft Bookshelf, a 300 dlr program that contains, on a single CD-ROM disk, a dictionary, thesaurus, national ZIP code directory, Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, the World Almanac and other reference works.     Scores of such products are already on the market, but most are specialty items, such as Lotus Development Corp's <LOTS> CD-ROM data base of stock information for financial analysts and investors. "Microsoft Bookshelf is important because it marks the arrival of CD-ROM packages for the general public," said Ian Warhaftig of International Data Corp.     One drawback of the CD-ROM, which uses a laser to record and read data, is that that it requires a special player. CD-ROM players for the retail market will appear later this year.     Moreover, IDC's Warhaftig said CD-ROM's will be integrated with personal computers.     "Eventually, CD-ROM's will fit right inside the PC box," he said. "Imagine the advantage of having a spelling checker and thesaurus at your fingertips when you're writing with a word processing program."     But CD-ROM's are just the beginning. Also last week, Kodak unveiled several systems that use 12-inch optical disks. The largest Kodak system uses a jukebox-like cabinet to hold up to 150 optical disks from which data can be retrieved in a matter of seconds.     Kodak also announced a 14-inch optical disk with 6.8 gigabytes of memory, five times the memory of a CD-ROM. The Kodak disk, which will not be available until the middle of 1988, is designed for users who need quick access to very large amounts of data, said Kodak's Giles.     Meanwhile, N.V. Philips <PGLO.AS>, the Dutch electronics giant, is preparing to take optical disk technology a step further with the first disk that can combine text, video and sound. Philips said the system, called Called CD-Interactive, will be ready next year. It will include a new kind of CD-ROM player that can hook up with a television set and stereo.      Additional breakthroughs are expected as the next generation of computer memory chips are introduced. Last month IBM said it has made a four-megabyte chip, capable of storing more data than eight CD-ROM's. Meantime, <Nippon Telegraph and Telephone> of Japan said it has built a 16-megabyte chip.     Analysts say commercial versions of these chips are several years away, though some suspect that IBM may start volume production of its four-megabyte chip sometime this year.     Such chips will enable computer makers to build computers with immense memory capacities.   Reuter &#3;

