17-MAR-1987 14:24:30.16

BUDGET SEEN PAVING WAY FOR EARLY U.K. ELECTION

The budget presented by Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson was described by MPs and analysts as being politically astute, combining tax cuts and fiscal prudence which promised to boost the Conservative government's standing with both voters and financial markets.     The 1987/88 budget contained a two-penny cut in the standard rate of tax, and a three billion stg reduction in the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR), to 4.0 billion stg.     Parliamentarians said the budget would pave the way for a fall in domestic interest rates and an early election.     Conservative MP Anthony Beaumont-Dark said the budget "is not glamourous - but it is sound and sensible."     Lawson told journalists later that it was "a budget built on success, for success."     But opposition MPs did not agree .     David Steel, leader of the Liberal Party, said "this was a strangely deceptive budget.     The Chancellor had six billion stg to give back - he has chosen to give half of that to reducing the PSBR, whereas we in the SDP/Liberal Aliance think it would have been wiser to use those revenues to reduce unemployment and alleviate poverty."     Steel said "the cunning thing in this seductive budget is that all the good things will come in the pre-election period - the fall in interest rates, the fall in mortgage rates, the lower income tax, relatively cheaper whisky, beer, cigarettes and petrol."     David Owen, the leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) which with the Liberals make up the centrist Alliance grouping, said "this is a good attempt at an electioneering budget but it has failed in its objective. It has given money to the "haves" as opposed to the "have-nots."     Labour leader Neil Kinnock called it "a bribes budget."     Kinnock said the budget "had little to do with the general good, and everything to do with the general election."     Roy Hattersley, the Labour Party's Treasury spokesman, said "the Tories should have used available resources to invest in industry, in health and in education."     He added that "we know that whoever is elected (to power in the next general election) will reverse these tax cuts."     But Lawson rejected that. Rather, he said the Treasury expected to have at least 3.0 billion stg in fiscal 1988/89 for use in cutting taxes or raising public spending.     Lawson rejected claims by opposition MPs that the government would be forced to call an election by a deteriorating economy.     In his financial statement to Parliament, Lawson had said that "the setting for this year's budget is more favourable than it has been for many years. We are now entering our seventh year of steady growth and the fifth in which this has been combined with low inflation. The public finances are sound and strong, and unemployment is falling."     He said that "these are the fruits of the government's determination, in bad times as well as good, to hold firmly to our policies of sound money and free markets."     Lawson later said the Government felt no compulsion to plump for an early election.     Asked by political journalists what effect the Budget would have on election timing, he replied "I think we will hold the election either late or early. I must confess I am rather relaxed about it all.     "There is not any compulsion to go for an early election.     But he added that "if the Prime Minister decides to go for an early election, it will bring to an end all this rather ridiculous pre-election atmosphere and fever - and there is something to be said for that."     Industry also welcomed Lawson's budget. Confederation of British Industry (CBI) President David Nickson said "This budget will reinforce business success. Lower government borrowing means lower interst rates for business. This is what the CBI wanted."     "We have always said we would judge the budget on how it affects the cost of borrowing. This should do the trick."  REUTER &#3;

