 5-APR-1987 01:24:59.91

MANILA MEETING WITH DONORS ON LAND REFORM RESET

Philippine officials will meet major aid donors in May to discuss a 500 mln dlr funding for an extensive land reform program, Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin said.     He told a news conference he had planned to sit down with a consultative group of major donors led by the World Bank late this month in Tokyo but said the documentation of the project would not be ready until the end of this month.     "The World Bank has recommended that we meet some time in the second half of May because it is pointless to have that meeting unless the participants have had adequate time to review the documentation," he said.     Government officials said the progam, estimated to cost 36 billion pesos, aims to distribute 9.7 mln hectares of land, including some 50,000 hectares seized from former associates of deposed President Ferdinand Marcos.     The new plan will include not only rice and corn land but also sugar and coconut plantations. It is expected to benefit about three mln impoverished peasants.     Ongpin said earlier there was strong interest in the program from donors but said given the substantial financial requirements of the plan, the government could not rely on only one source but on a combination of sources.     President Corazon Aquino approved last month the use of an estimated 20 billion pesos from the proceeds of the sale of certain non-performing assets to private companies.     Ongpin said he has asked Aquino to consider two other sources, namely the proceeds from the sale of government corporations which are to be privatised and proceeds from the liquidation of seized Marcos-related assets.     He also said he would recommend public hearings before such a big project was legislated.     "If we get a good reception in the public hearings, perhaps then the President might feel persuaded that it is not necessary to wait for the Congress," he said.     Aquino had said she would prefer that legislation for the program be approved by a two-house Congress, whose members will be elected on May 11.     But her advisers are trying to persuade her to implement the program before the Congress convenes in July.  REUTER &#3;

