19-MAR-1987 10:14:48.53

TURKISH DEBT REACHED 31.4 BILLION DLRS AT END-1986

Turkey's external debt rose to the equivalent of 31.4 billion dlrs at end-1986 from 25.4 billion a year earlier, Treasury Under-secretary Yavuz Canevi said.     Canevi, who gave the figure at a briefing on the Turkish economy arranged for Ankara-based diplomats, said the short-term component was 9.6 billion dlrs at end-1986, up from 6.6 billion.     Much of Turkey's debt is denominated in currencies other than the dollar. Canevi said the increase expressed in dollar terms was partly attributable to the fall in value of the U.S. Currency.     While the rise in total debt was about 24 pct in dollar terms, it would be only 11 pct if expressed in special drawing rights and would represent a fall of 11 pct if expressed in the West German mark, he said.     On the rise in short-term debt, Canevi said half the amount was in Turkish citizens' foreign exchange deposits. "On a macro level it is a liability but it is not really a liability because it will be repaid in Turkish lira," he added.     Canevi was Governor of the Turkish Central Bank until last November, when he was promoted to Under-secretary for the Treasury and Foreign Trade, a key economic management post.     Canevi listed what he called the assets of the Turkish economy, including liberalisation in the last three years, the country's geographical position and the strength of its agriculture and manpower skills.     The debt picture was one of three liabilities, he said, along with the failure to reduce inflation swiftly and impatience. "We are an impatient nation ... We should be patient enough to achieve better results," he added.     Wholesale prices on an index issued by Canevi's department rose 27.4 pct in the year to February, compared with 33.3 pct a year earlier.     On inflation, Canevi said: "We have chosen to reduce inflation in a moderate way. We could have reduced it in two years from 25 pct to five pct but we needed growth ... We already have high unemployment."     "I don't blame people who are sick and tired of living with inflation but it was 100 per cent before. The trend is down, so let's be patient and not distort overall policies and we will achieve our targets in one or two years," he said.  REUTER &#3;

