16-MAR-1987 14:22:34.88

SAUDI BUSINESSMEN SEEK TO BOOST PRIVATE SECTOR

Top Saudi businessmen discussing ways to bolster the kingdom's private sector at a Chamber of Commerce conference here today called for finance to be made available more easily for industrial projects.     Saleh Kamel, a leading businessman and head of the Jeddah-based Dallah group, said business needed more funding and welcomed recent measures to encourage banks to step up lending.     But yesterday conference participants were publicly reprimanded for not investing enough in the kingdom.     Prince Khaled al-Faisal, governor of the Asir region hosting the four-day conference, accused businessmen of showing ingratitude at a time when the government had been prepared to draw heavily on reserves to maintain spending and stimulate the economy.     Businessmen, for their part, argued today that the kingdom's commercial banks were unwilling to take risks and help finance industrial projects.     Saleh Kamel, one of Saudi Arabia's leading businessmen and head of the Jeddah-based Dallah group, told Reuters the general economic outlook for trade and industry had improved.     "We can be optimistic, the economy is looking brighter," he said. But he also said businessmen needed more finance and welcomed measures being taken to encourage banks to step up lending.     A committee at the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, the kingdom's central bank, is now examining the problem.     Commercial banks are in fact extremely liquid but have become highly selective in extending new credit after many companies ran into trouble repaying debt during the last three years.     Between 1982 and 1985 banks had to make risk provisions totalling 4.3 billion riyals and results now coming in for 1986 show another year when heavy reserves had to be made against bad and doubtful loans.     The effects of the Middle East economic downturn hit the construction sector in Saudi Arabia very hard and there has been a sharp fall in development lending for new industrial projects.     The Saudi Industrial Development Fund, a major source for private sector finance, made loan commitments totalling 752 mln riyals in the financial year to September 4, 1986, a decline of nearly 20 pct on the previous year.     The government credit agency specialises in low cost loans for development, funding 50 pct of a project's total value.     The pattern of the agency's lending has also shown a distinct shift away from infrastructre-related industry - such as cement plants - to capital-intensive projects.     Businessmen said opportunities are now available in service industries and tourism which is slowly developing in the Gulf region. But new investment in manufacturing industry shows fewer signs of taking hold.  REUTER &#3;

