23-MAR-1987 03:01:35.01

VW EXPECTS HIGHER GERMAN MARKET SHARE IN 1987

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> expects to increase its market share in West Germany in the full year 1987 after registering gains in the first two months of the year, managing board chairman Carl Hahn said.     He told Reuters in an interview that incoming orders in West Germany, VW's largest single market, had been very good in early 1987. Its share of the domestic car market rose to 29 pct in January and February from 26 pct in the year-ago period.     Hahn declined to forecast first quarter 1987 results, or answer questions about the VW currency scandal.     Hahn said he did not want to elaborate on statements VW had already issued on the affair and noted the case was now in the hands of state prosecutors.     VW, like other car manufacturers, had encountered difficult market conditions in the United States in early 1987, Hahn said, without giving details.     He declined to predict U.S. Sales for 1987 as a whole, saying it was particularly difficult this year to forecast sales trends in North America, VW's second largest regional market after Western Europe.     Hahn declined to comment directly on reports that 1986 losses at Spanish subsidiary Sociedad Espanola de Automoviles de Turismo (SEAT) totalled up to 27 billion pesetas or that these losses were twice as high as expected.     But he said SEAT was developing according to plan and added the introduction of international accounting standards and changes to VW's own had led to some corrections to SEAT's figures.     VW hoped SEAT would reach break-even point in the course of this year. In 1986 SEAT's volume sales had been better than expected, Hahn said.     In January and February, 1987, SEAT's turnover in Europe rose 40 pct compared with the same months of 1986, Hahn said. Its European market share rose to 1.9 pct in January and February from 1.6 pct a year earlier.     Hahn said VW hoped to sign a contract with Ford Motor Co <F.N> in the summer on the planned joint venture between the two companies' loss-making operations in Argentina and Brazil.     A provisional joint management team was already looking at ways of synchronising the two operations, he said. VW's operations in Mexico had made again made a profit in 1986, he added.     Hahn, speaking to Reuters in an interview to mark production of VW's 50 millionth car, said VW had no plans to make acquisitions outside the automotive sector.     It also did not expect to raise capital again in the foreseeable future after increasing capital by 25 pct in 1986 in the biggest rights issue in West German history, Hahn said.     In a separate interview Karl-Heinz Briam, the management board member responsible for labour relations, said VW did not currently plan to increase its workforce further this year.     All of VW's domestic plants and most of its foreign production facilities were currently operating at full capacity, Briam said. The exceptions were VW's Nigerian operations and its Westmoreland plant in Pennsylvania.     Hahn said VW had recently taken steps to increase the flexibility and improve the structure of the Westmoreland plant. However, VW was not planning to increase production there at the moment.     "Most of the VW vehicles (sold in the U.S.) will, as before, be built in Germany," Hahn said.     Hahn said there was room for further growth in West Germany, and predicted that 1987 would be a good year generally for the industry domestically.     Wolfgang Lincke, head of car development at VW, said the increasing environmental awareness of West German consumers would allow VW to sell more "higher value" cars in future containing equipment such as catalytic converters, which cut exhaust emissions.     Lincke declined to be drawn on when VW may introduce a successor to its current Golf model, which in 1983 replaced the original dating from 1974.     VW would in any case retain the Golf name. Of the 50 mln VW cars built since VW started commercial production after World War II, nearly nine mln have been Golfs, Lincke said.     VW, which traditionally releases its annual results in April or May, said last week 1986 profit and dividend would both be unchanged despite the need to make provision to cover the possible loss of 480 mln marks from allegedly fraudulent hedging operations.     VW has also said the currency scandal would not affect the company's investment spending.  REUTER &#3;

