 1-JUN-1987 14:30:52.51

AIRLINE ANALYSTS STUDY BRITISH AIRWAYS <BAB>

Since British Airways was sold to the public by the British government, airline analysts have begun covering the big carrier and giving it good reviews.     "Analysts are picking up British Airways because it's a major airline, and because they have fewer companies to work with after all the mergers," said Merrill Lynch analyst Edmund Greenslet. "Two years ago there were enough U.S. carriers, but now more analysts are adding the international airlines."     Merrill Lynch, for instance, will be covering it from its international offices, he said.     British Airways was sold to the public by the Conservative government in February.     It has a fleet of 167 jetliners, making it the largest in Europe. A relatively small portion of revenue and traffic comes from intra-U.K. operations, and its predominantly long-haul route network spans the globe.     Julius Maldutis at Salomon Brothers said he likes British Airways because it can quickly redeploy jets to strong markets or away from weak ones, as it did last year in response to the severe downturn in North Atlantic traffic after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster and terrorist actions.     "Because of its diverse network, it has the ability to hedge or mitigate adverse developments in one particular area," Maldutis said.     He said British Airways should outperform the rest of the stock market. Salomon was an underwriter for the company's public offering in February.     About 6.3 mln British Airways' American depositary receipts are traded on the NYSE, and 2.8 mln ADRs on the Toronto exchange. Each ADR equals 10 ordinary shares.     Louis Marckesano at Janney Montgomery Scott said British Airways near-term outlook is good. "We're looking for good traffic growth and improved revenues," he said.     "British Airways should be riding a good wave," he said. "Its fiscal year began April one, so when you think of all the troubles it experienced in the first half of last year, especially in the North Atlantic market, you know all camparisons should be nice."     At March 31 the carrier had total debt of 279 mln stg for a debt-to-equity ratio of 33 pct, which is very good for an airline, analysts said.     "Its balance sheet is very conservative - perhaps too conservative for an airline - but that means it can borrow to expand its fleet," Marckesano said.     British Airways has been a leading force of airline liberalization in Europe, which is being gradually implemented to avoid the problems of U.S. airline deregulation, which brought years of unstable fares and losses.     Analysts agree a phased-in deregulation will greatly benefit British Airways over the long run because it is the largest European carrier.     Analysts caution that British Airways faces increasing competition for travelers to Europe from U.S. carriers as airline consolidation here expands route networks.     In 1983, for instance, about 69 pct of U.K.-bound passengers transferred to European carriers after arriving at U.S. gateway airports onboard U.S. carriers.     But U.S. carriers are retaining more of their passengers, and this year about 30 pct of U.K.-bound travelers are expected to switch to a European carrier to complete the trip, according to British Airways' chief executive officer, Colin Marshall.     "British Airways had a greater shot at picking up traffic when it was funneled to New York," said Marckesano "Now, traffic is being captured earlier by U.S. carriers as it leaves Atlanta, Dallas and other cities," said Marckesano.     He also said that British Airways' first-half results might mislead an investor into gauging full-year results because its fiscal year begins April one.     "Profits build in the first half. But if an investor just doubles that figure, he'll be making a big mistake," he said.  Reuter &#3;

