13-MAR-1987 07:08:35.33

MAJOR DIVESTMENT PLANS OUTLINED FOR SINGAPORE

The Singapore government should reduce its stake in major state-owned or run companies like Singapore Airlines Ltd <AIRH.SI> to around 30 pct over the next decade and privatise statutory boards, a government report said.     The report of the Public Sector Divestment Committee also recommended flotation of as many government-linked companies (glcs) as possible, and secondary distribution of state-owned shares to add breadth and depth to the Singapore stock market.     The Singapore government owns or backs 608 companies under three holding companies with total assets in access of 10 billion dlrs, the report said.     The report said a study of 99 glcs showed that 41 of them should be privatised, 52 should not be privatised, and six should be studied further because they have foreign government participation, serve a "social mission," or are defence-related.     Of the 41, 15 should seek listing on The Stock Exchange of Singapore Dealing and Automated Quotation System (SESDAQ), including shipyards, printing firms and airport service firms.     The government should privatise a further 17, including Intraco Ltd (a government trading firm), Chemical Industries (FE) Ltd, and Acma Electrical Industries Ltd, and reduce its stake in nine, it added.     These included Singapore Airlines, SIA, now 63 pct-owned by the government's Temasek Holdings, The Development Bank of Singapore <DBSM.SI>, Keppel Corp Ltd <KPLM.SI>, Sembawang Shipyard Ltd <BAWH.SI> and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.     The ceiling on foreign ownership of SIA should be allowed to rise to 49 pct from the current 20 pct, it said.     "The committee recommends that Temasek Holdings reduces its stake (in SIA) in tranches to around 30 pct. The size and timing of each tranche would depend on the absorptive capacity of the Singapore stock market," it added.     Trading in shares of SIA, which has a paid-up capital of 619 mln dlrs, closed here today at 10.60 dlrs.     The report said the government's 48 pct stake in DBS, one of Singapore's four major local banks, should be cut to 30 pct through public offerings or dilution by issuing new shares.     Among firms which should not be privatised, nine are to be wound up, it said, including storage and food trading firms.     The report said seven statutory boards should be considered for privatisation so as to reduce competition with the private sector, with a 20 pct ceiling on foreign ownership.     The seven include the Telecommunications Authority of Singapore, the Public Utilities Board, the Port of Singapore Authority, the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Broadcasting Corp.     The latter is least able to be privatised because of the sensitivity of its activities, it said.     "The others can be privatised only after various issues have been thoroughly debated and adequate safeguards formulated for post-privatisation control and regulation," it added.     "The committee recommends that as many government-linked companies as possible should be privatised," the report said.     But it added that there should be "a policy of robust privatisation where initiative is decentralised and order is maintained through adequate monitoring, control and direction."     The committee's findings will be subject to final approval from the Ministry of Finance.  REUTER &#3;

