19-JUN-1987 03:53:39.82

U.S. SEEKS JAPAN HELP IN EVENT OF 1988 RECESSION

Senior U.S. Officials are looking to Japan for help in buttressing the world economy in the event of an American recession next year, Japanese government sources said.     During a visit to the U.S. Earlier this month, Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo was asked by both U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker and Council of Economic Advisers chairman Beryl Sprinkel what Japan could do if the U.S. Enters recession next year.     Although Sprinkel indicated that he personally did not expect a recession next year, Volcker seemed to acknowledge that an economic downturn was at least a possibility, the sources said.     Faced with with a huge budget deficit, the U.S. Has little room to manoeuvre on fiscal policy to counteract any downturn that might occur in 1988.     It is also hamstrung as far as monetary policy is concerned because U.S. Inflation is already showing some signs of picking up, one source said.     But Japan is also limited in what action it could take to help counteract a U.S. Recession without running the risk of overstimulating its domestic economy and pushing up inflation, the sources said.     Money supply growth is accelerating and interest rates are at record low levels. In May, M-2 money supply plus certificates of deposit grew at a year-on-year rate of 10.2 pct, well above nominal GNP growth of four to five pct.     Some government sources are also worried that the recently announced 6,000 billion yen emergency economic package could push up land prices and the construction sector's inflation.     Public investment spending grew at a year-on-year rate of about 10 pct in April, but that could accelerate to 20 pct later this year under the impact of the emergency package, one source said.     The 6,000 billion yen package was generally well received in the U.S., Although U.S. Congressmen and businessmen told Kondo they wanted the measures implemented quickly, sources said.     The Japanese minister explained that the acceleration of public works spending in the package was taking place immediately, they said.     U.S. Congressmen were particularly interested in how much impact the package would have on reducing the bilateral trade imbalance, a question which Kondo was unable to answer clearly, given the many economic uncertainties involved, the sources said.     While recognizing that Japan's trade surplus is falling in terms of volume, some Congressmen expressed concern that it was not falling fast enough.      But the sources said no one pressed Kondo for a further rise of the yen as a solution to correcting the bilateral trade imbalance.  REUTER &#3;

