18-MAR-1987 23:14:35.02

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - ASIAN PROPERTY MARKET

Property looks set to continue to provide good returns on investment in most major cities in Asia and Australia this year.     A Reuter poll of property analysts, bankers and economists around the region shows better returns are often more likely to come from buying and selling real estate than from rental income.     In central Tokyo, property analysts project commercial land prices will rise this year by 10 to 20 pct after last year's 53.8 pct jump.     The main draw for local and foreign investors in Japan is Tokyo, where the top price paid for a central commercial property last year was 169,000 dlrs a square meter. A building in land-poor Singapore recently sold for 3,300 dlrs a meter.     But the analysts said Tokyo rents could level off as supply increases slightly and the strong yen puts prices out of reach of foreign investors.     Japanese investors, spurred by the yen's rise, are spending record sums on property abroad, partly elsewhere in Asia, but in particular in the U.S., Where Japanese investment could double this year to 10 billion dlrs, the analysts said.     The analysts forecast that Hong Kong property prices will rise steadily over the next few years, although a surge in construction will limit increases in some areas.     Property sales have become increasingly popular because in some sectors of the market real estate prices, as in several cities in the region, have already outpaced rent yields.     "We still see prices creeping up steadily and I don't see why the trend should not continue over the next few months," said Gareth Williams, a partner of land agent Vigers Hong Kong. But he warned investors to bear in mind the political risk linked to the return of the colony to China in 1997.     In several other countries, analysts predicted at least some rise in property values, which in one or two cases, such as Thailand, could help spark a construction boom.     Bankers and economists in Bangkok said they expect at least seven pct growth this year in private sector construction as a result of government assistance, low mortgage rates and a generally bullish economic outlook.     Increased confidence in the economy has also improved the outlook for property in Manila after a three-year slump, one Philippine developer said.     Taiwan's property market is also set to turn around after five years in the doldrums, according to property developers in Taipei. They, like counterparts in many of the region's capitals, cited low interest rates as a major factor.     One leading broker said the property market had become an attractive investment in Taiwan, noting property development yields of up to 15 pct.     Jakarta too has plenty of new office towers. Construction has helped cut rents to half the levels of the early 1980s, though foreigners usually have to rent because of limits on property ownership, as in many parts of Asia.     In contrast, Australia's easing of rules on foreign investment in property, combined with financial deregulation and a weaker dollar, has helped spark overseas interest in the market, analysts said. But this has not always meant sales.     "What we have seen is an increase in inquiries, particularly from Japan, but this has yet to show itself in many new deals being done," said Allan Farrar, executive director (real estate) of Elders IXL Ltd's pastoral group.     Yields on prime Sydney office buildings average 6.5 pct, and one analyst forecast a 20 pct jump in rents this year after 15 pct rises in each of the past two years. REUTER... &#3;

