29-JUN-1987 15:51:10.06

BRAZIL LAND REFORM PROGRAM FALTERS, TENSIONS RISE

Brazil's land reform program, long trumpeted by the government as one of its absolute priorities, is mired in bureaucracy after achieving very few of its aims.     Officials acknowledge that progress is now minimal. Land rights activists see no progress at all and say things are actually worsening. Over the last year economic pressures have forced many small producers to sell out to big land-owners.     Land reform, one of the country's most hotly-debated political issues, is particularly to the fore this year as a Constituent Assembly in Brasilia draws up a new constitution.     Land rights campaigners say that if the new charter does not give fresh hope for the country's 4.5 mln landless families, there will be wave upon wave of land occupations.     "We make no secret of our tactics," said one leader of the land reform movement, Joao Pedro. "The solution is to occupy -- that is what we say to the rural workers. There has not been a single program of land reform in the world without the people occupying land."     The land issue spawns violence from Amazonia to Mato Grosso. Some 278 people died in land disputes last year, according to the Pastoral Commission for Land, which is linked to the Roman Catholic Church.     The land reform program, announced in 1985 soon after the civilian government of President Jose Sarney took power, aimed to resettle 1,4 mln families by 1989 by gradually splitting up the country's vast, undeveloped estates.     The government, in its National Plan for Agrarian Reform, described the program as "one of its absolute priorities."     In practice, fewer than 20,000 families have been helped so far and the government admits that it will not get anywhere near the original target.     Political analysts said that the pace of land reform was now slower under Sarney than it had been under the military government of General Joao Figueiredo (1979-85).     The slow progress on the issue is fuelling deep frustration. Land rights demonstrations are a common sight in Sao Paulo and other parts of the country.     Activists say social conditions in the countryside, far from improving, have significantly deteriorated.     Pedro, a leader of the Movement of Landless Rural Workers, said that over the last 12 months 100,000 small producers had been forced off the land in Brazil's five southernmost states.     He said the exodus had been caused first by the government's anti-inflation Cruzado Plan, which last year froze prices and hit the income of small farmers.     When the Cruzado Plan collapsed late last year, prices and interest rates soared and many small farmers were unable to pay debts taken out during the price freeze.     Pedro said most of the 100,000 families who had left the countryside in the south had previously been land-owners, while a minority had been tenant farmers. Most had moved to Brazil's swollen cities.     One activist said the number of landless day labourers called "boias-frias" (literally "cold meals"), most of whom cut sugar cane, had increased to 400,000 in Sao Paulo state from about 300,000 five years ago.     In an attempt to improve the lot of the rural poor, the land reform movement has drawn up a radical proposal which it is sending to the Constituent Assembly.     The proposal would severely limit the size of a maximum permissible holding and the land rights movement does not expect it to be voted into the constitution.     Pedro said at least 70 pct of the 559-member assembly is composed of big land-owners. He added that the assembly would probably vote on the proposal by October and that its rejection would be the signal for large-scale land invasions.  Reuter &#3;

