19-OCT-1987 04:24:18.61

ABE TIPPED TO BE NEXT JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER

No clear indication has emerged of the victor in the race to succeed Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone but political analysts said it was becoming more likely that former foreign minister Shintaro Abe would be chosen.     A decision on which of the three contenders would be picked was expected late today or early on Tuesday, they said.     Japanese political leaders held a flurry of closed-door meetings today and the three candidates called on Nakasone, who is due to step down late this month, to mediate to break the deadlock.     The other candidates are Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita.     They are vying for the post of president of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), who is automatically prime minister by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority.     The new LDP president will be named formally at a party convention on October 30 and elected prime minister by parliament, probably on November 6, LDP sources said.     Nakasone, 69, is due to retire on October 31 after five years in the post, an exceptionally long term by Japanese standards.     Takeshita, who is head of the party's largest faction, had steadfastly opposed the idea of seeking Nakasone's help, but he told reporters: "It is possible Nakasone will be given carte blanche (for selection of his successor)."     One political analyst, who declined to be identified, said Nakasone, despite a personal preference for Miyazawa, is likely to choose Abe as the best candidate for steering Japan through its international problems and maintaining party unity. Abe also would also accept Nakasone's influence, he said. Analysts said one of Nakasone's prime aims is to retain as much power as possible following his retirement.     Takeshita, the early favorite because of the size of his faction, is viewed by many politicians and analysts as being unsuitable for the post of prime minister because of his lack of international experience.     The analysts said Nakasone also was very unlikely to support Takeshita's bid because of the differences in their political styles.  REUTER &#3;

