23-MAR-1987 14:50:59.58

SWISS BANKERS ANNOUNCE CURBS ON BANKING SECRECY

Swiss bankers announced a series of measures aimed at preventing abuses of the country's tight banking secrecy laws as part of a revision of a 10-year-old voluntary code of conduct.     The measures follow renewed controversy over the limits of Swiss secrecy, prompted by recent allegations that both former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and U.S. Officials linked with the arms-for-Iran scandal had accounts here.     The Swiss Bankers Association said it wanted to curb the right of bank clients to hide their identity behind lawyers.     The association said it would insist that banks identify anyone doing cash business at the counter worth more than 100,000 francs, down from a current 500,000.     Banks would continue to be required to identify their clients in other cases and pledge not actively to help capital flight, or tax fraud. They would also still face fines of up to 10 mln francs in case of abuse.     "The Bankers Association is convinced that this new agreement will give the banks an instrument which will guarantee banking secrecy and help the standing of Swiss banking both home and abroad," the statement said.     The code, once approved by member banks, will go into force on October 1. The original dates from 1977.     Controversy surrounding the alleged use and then freezing of bank accounts here linked with Marcos and with the U.S. Arms-for-Iran scandal have again directed attention on the revision of the code.     The recent busting of a major international drug ring also gave fresh evidence Swiss banks had been used for "laundering" drug money.     The Banking Commission, responsible for overseeing the banks, said at the end of last year it wanted a drastic reduction in clients' ability to hide behind lawyers and fiduciary agents, a proposal criticised by lawyers.     Steering a middle way, the association said today that lawyers doing banking business on behalf of clients would in future have to pledge they were not doing so merely to preserve the clients' identity nor only for a short period of time.     Until now, lawyers have only been obliged to sign a form pledging that their clients are not misusing their anonymity for illegal purposes.  REUTER &#3;

