 2-APR-1987 05:24:37.82

CHINA TAKES SHARE TRADING OFF REFORM AGENDA

China opened its fifth securities market yesterday, in Tianjin, but share issues and share trading are no longer on the agenda of economic reform, official newspapers and Western diplomats said.     One Western diplomat said share issues are on the backburner because they are ideologically too sensitive.     The People's Daily said last month that trading shares is "not compatible with socialist materialist civilisation."     The newly opened market traded bonds in four state-owned firms and buyers outnumbered sellers, the China Daily said.     China's first securities market since 1949 opened last August in Shenyang, followed by markets in Shanghai in September and in Peking and Harbin this year. They trade mostly bonds.     "Bonds are all right. There is no risk to the holder and there is no question of his having any ownership stake in the firm," the diplomat said.     The People's Daily article said joint stock companies might not be the way to reform large and medium-size state firms nor the model for reforming China's ownership system.     Share issues would make the workers owning them think only of the economic advantage of their own firms, rather than the nation as a whole, the People's Daily said.     As late as December, officials were pushing the idea of share issues as a way to channel excess cash in the economy into production, reduce the state's investment burden and motivate share-owning employees to work harder.     In November, Liu Hongru, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told a delegation from the New York Stock Exchange that a long-term funds market should be built up, "with stocks and bonds issuance as the main form."     "Stocks and bonds should be issued through banks, trust and investment companies ... The transfer of securities should be conducted through financial institutions ... The opening up of secondary markets should be studied after trials and experiments," Liu said.     The subject of share issues and trading was widely covered in the official press last year, usually in a positive way.     One of the most far-reaching proposals came from a Peking university professor. He said all but essential state firms should become joint stock holding companies, with the state holding a controlling share that could be as low as 33 pct.     The professor argued this would separate government administrators from managers of the firms, a key goal of China's reforms. He said his plan would make the companies independent units under a board of directors.     The diplomat said the dropping of share issues may be the result of conservative backlash since the January resignation of reformist Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang. He said share issues raise sensitive questions: "What happens if the value falls? People are not used to this and may be dissatisfied. What happens if a person gets very rich through share ownership? The government does not want disparity in income."     One Chinese journalist said conditions are not ripe for widespread share issues. "In China, the success or failure of a firm does not entirely lie within its own hands. There are many external factors beyond its control," he said. "To make share purchasing attractive, you need a secondary market and perhaps speculators," he said. "But speculation is not acceptable in China."     Asked if there are political reasons for putting aside share issues, he said that in China economics and politics cannot be separated.     "There is a very major review of the economic reforms going on. There are political factors involved," the journalist said. "If the economy runs well this year, the political pressure will be less."     Comments by officials of the new Tianjin market echoed his caution. The China Daily quoted one official as saying China does not intend to develop stock exchanges equivalent to those in the West while it has a socialist economic system. "Given the special circumstances of our country, we must approach the new phenomenon in a contemplative and comprehensive way so as to guide trading onto a healthy track," he said.  REUTER &#3;

