 8-APR-1987 09:02:07.08

NO SPECIAL CHECKS AT GERMAN BANKS BECAUSE OF VW

Banking supervisory authorities are not carrying out any special checks at banks in the wake of the currency fraud scandal at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, a spokesman for the Hesse regional state central bank, LZB, said.     But inspectors are paying particular attention to foreign exchange matters in their routine checks at banks, he said in answer to enquiries. There is no evidence rules were broken.     The LZB spokesman was commenting on press reports that banks had "parked" open currency positions for short periods with VW to circumvent regulations limiting the size of open currency positions that can be carried by banks overnight.     The press allegations emerged after VW said it may have lost 480 mln marks as a result of a possible currency fraud.     LZBs are regional branches of the Bundesbank. Their inspectors also act for the Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin, which regulates banking in West Germany.     Following the 1974 Herstatt bank crash on currency speculation, West Germany limited a bank's total open positions overnight to 30 pct of shareholders' equity and reserves.     German press reports have said some banks circumvented this rule by selling excess positions to VW, then repurchasing them.     The banking regulations only cover banks. Company foreign exchange activities are not subject to the banking regulators.     The LZB spokesman said there were no concrete signs that the regulations had been broken, and it would be irresponsible to instigate a special check just on the basis of the reports.     The LZBs receive monthly balance sheet statistics from banks in their areas, which they check, and they also routinely inspect all banks in greater detail over longer periods.     But LZB officials said it would be hard for inspectors to detect a breach of these rules as they do not check companies and therefore would not see both sides of any parking deal.     "If the managements of the banks have not spotted them, it will be even harder for our inspectors," said one official.     It would be up to the public prosecutors to order special checks on suspicion of breaches of these regulations, they said. Prosecutors in Brunswick are already investigating the VW currency scandal, and have ordered the arrest of VW's former chief foreign exchange dealer.     Breaches of the Banking Law in this way can be punished by a 100,000 mark fine for the dealers involved, and in extreme cases by removal of the managers if their active involvement is proved.  REUTER &#3;

