25-MAR-1987 19:24:43.82

MEMBERS VOTE TO DISSOLVE U.S. FARM CO-OP

The shareholders of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co voted to dissolve the 26-year-old firm, the futures trading arm of 85 farm cooperatives, its president said.     Thomas E. Mulligan, president of the board of directors, said 87 pct of the 61 members voting favored dissolution.     The directors recommended the move, citing falling volume and higher costs, when it called a special shareholders meeting last month.     Mulligan said the cooperative would continue operating until April 24, when the member cooperatives will have to begin clearing their futures trades through other companies.     Mulligan said one of the members, Farmers Commodities of Des Moines, Iowa, was attempting to organize a new cooperative to replace Illinois Coop as a clearing company.     Sources close to Farmers Commodities confirmed its plans, but Hal Richards, president, could not be reached immediately for comment, and it was unknown how many cooperatives might be willing to band together.     Industry sources said Farmers Commodities would face a difficult task in setting up a new clearing organization by April 24, the day Illinois Cooperative will be dissolved.     They would have to obtain commitments from a sufficient number of cooperatives to meet minimum capital requirements, obtain trading memberships, and set up the office mechanisms to handle futures trading.     In the meantime, commercial clearing firms have been courting the individual coops, trying to obtain their business with low trading rates.     If Farmers Commodities is unable to set up a clearing organization by April 24, individual members will find other homes, and they're unlikely to change clearing firms a second time, one industry source said.     The demise of Illinois Coop was set in motion by the withdrawl of Growmark, Inc., the largest member with more than 70 pct of the capital stock, according to sources within the cooperative.     Mulligan acknowledged prior to the vote that Growmark had no need to belong to the cooperative since it became affiliated last year with Archer Daniels Midland.     But he said Illinois Cooperative would still have been able to meet minimum capital requirements without Growmark.     The vote to dissolve the organization was met with "a certain amount of pang," he said. "But in the final analysis, the decision has to be economic, not emotional."  Reuter &#3;

