30-MAR-1987 16:47:03.31

EC MINISTERS DIFFER WIDELY ON FARM PRICE PLAN

European Community (EC) agriculture ministers gave widely diverging reactions to EC executive Commission proposals for a radical reduction of guaranteed prices for the EC's 12 mln farmers.     The plans, which could cut the price received by farmers by over 10 pct in many cases, were dismissed by West German minister Ignaz Kiechle as in part unacceptable and in part not even a basis for negotiation, diplomatic sources said.     At the other end of the scale, Britain's Michael Jopling said for some products they did not go far enough to reduce the massive spending on the EC's farm policy, the major factor which has brought the Community close to a budget crisis.     Ministers discussed the Commission's 1987-88 farm price proposals for the first time and the sources said negotiations could last several months yet.     Belgian minister Paul de Keersmaeker, who is chairing the meeting, told his colleagues he would not even attempt to reach agreement at the current meeting which is due to end Tuesday although prices are supposed to be agreed by April 1.     The disagreement among ministers reflects deep divisions among member states about the future of the EC's farm policy which swallows about two-thirds of the annual 36 billion European Currency Unit (41 billion dollar) budget.     Kiechle, backed generally by his French, Italian and several other colleagues, believes sacrifices by traditional family farmers must be kept to a minimum in order to maintain viable rural communities in Europe.     Jopling, with some support from the Netherlands and Denmark, on the whole backs proposals by EC farm commissioner Frans Andriessen to cut guaranteed prices and reduce the opportunities for sales of surplus products into EC stores.     He believes the system which allows such sales nominally as a last resort has become abused, resulting in huge stocks and damaging trade tensions with other major world food exporters.     Jopling told journalists it was now costing the EC 2,000 Ecus a hectare (920 dlrs an acre) to subsidise cotton production and double that figure for the growing of certain types of tobacco.     Opening yesterday's debate, Andriessen accused officials of some EC states of ignoring realities. "They give the impression of living on another planet where there are no surpluses, no budgetary deficits and no budgetary discipline for farm spending," he said.     One Andriessen scheme for closing the budget gap could already be doomed, diplomats said.     He wants to raise two billion Ecus (2.28 billion dlrs) through a tax on EC produced and imported oilseeds which has already raised hackles in Washington because of fears of the impact on U.S. soybean exports.     Jopling said earlier enough EC states appear opposed to this scheme to block its adoption provided they all stand firm in the lengthy negotiations ahead on the Commission proposals.  Reuter &#3;

