 8-APR-1987 04:30:07.09

JAPANESE AUTOMAKERS TURN TO FOUR-WHEEL STEERING

Major Japanese automakers are gearing up to equip sporty models with four-wheel steering, a feature that could become standard on high-grade cars in the future, automotive industry sources said.     Two companies are ready to market such cars soon, they said. Honda Motor Co Ltd will sell its Prelude with four-wheel steering from this Friday, and Mazda Motor Corp officials say a model with the new steering will be out by mid-year. Mazda aims to ship the cars overseas before year-end but the decision will depend on initial consumer reaction.     Nissan Motor Co Ltd has offered a less sophisticated four-wheel steering system on its Skyline since August 1985. Toyota Motor Corp has exhibited its developments in the field at a recent motor show and Mitsubishi Motors Corp said it will use the system in the near future.     Though major U.S. And European automakers have also researched and tested the four-wheel system, they say they are waiting to see consumer response to the Japanese cars and for further improvements in safety and costs.     Four-wheel steering allows drivers to easily manoeuvre into parking spaces and gives more control on sharp turns.      Mazda officials believe the new steering will improve safety. "At extremes, four-wheel steering gives a driver more control," said one official. "On slippery surfaces or at high speeds, the system reduces unnecessary movement of the vehicle."     While acknowledging the added vehicle stability, a Honda engineer said: "This invention is not intended to improve safety, but is aimed at allowing everyone to drive easily."     Mazda's electronic steering system tells the back wheels to turn in the opposite direction from the front wheels at slow speeds but in the same direction at high speeds.     Honda's system, which is mechanical, is similar but the direction of the rear wheels is determined by the angle of the front wheels. With Nissan's system the rear wheels move only parallel to the front.     Automakers say professional drivers who have tested the four-wheel steering say it greatly improves handling.     An official with one U.S. Vehicle manufacturer said four-wheel steering is a technical improvement, but it is uncertain whether it will translate into higher sales or profits. "All automakers are interested in something new," he said. "If it becomes a predominant factor, everyone will want to follow."     The official said four-wheel steering is partly a gimmick to sell cars. "It's a benefit of a secondary nature compared with devices for fuel economy or emission control."     General Motors Corp has developed a four-wheel steering system, but is unlikely to market it within the next five years, Y. Hojoh, engineer with the Japan branch of General Motors Overseas Corp, said. GM must consider the costs to the consumer, he added.     The industry sources said the additional cost of the system in Japan would probably make little difference to the consumer as it would be added to already high-priced models.  REUTER &#3;

