20-OCT-1987 17:18:41.49

U.S. STOCK DROP SEEN SLOWING JAPANESE BUYING

A collapse in U.S. stock prices has  hit Japanese investors hard, since they had shifted to stocks from bonds earlier this year, and will slow down Japanese capital flows to the U.S., investors and stock brokers said.    Until recently Japanese net purchases of U.S. stocks were projected to leap to eight to 12 billion dlrs this year from four billion dlrs in 1986, securities industry sources said.    "The Japanese had suffered severely from U.S. bond investments and now (they are suffering) in U.S. stocks," said Hiroyuki Kondo of Yasuda Trust and Banking Co Ltd.     Japanese portfolio investment was concentrated in Treasury securities until early this year, which led to heavy currency losses following the dollar's steep decline. Even though their U.S. bond purchases moderated since then, Japanese investors continued to suffer losses as bond prices fell sharply in recent months.     Now the historic fall in the U.S. stock market has stunned Japanese investors, killing their appetite for U.S. stocks.     Keita Konishi of Sumitomo Life Insurance Co said while his firm was not panicked into an across-the-board sell-off of its U.S. stock investments, he does not expect it to resume buying stocks for some time.     There has been no panic selling by Japanese institutional investors so far during the stock price nosedive, said Susumu Uchiyama of Yamaichi Internatinal (America), Inc. Following the steep decline, however, Japanese are not buying, even though U.S. stocks now appear bargain-priced, he said.     "There will be no big wave of Japanese investment in the U.S. for the time being," said Keiji Tsuda of Nissei BOT Asset Management Corp, an investment advisory body to Nippon Life Insurance Co.     "It's the time to think twice. The psychological impact (on investors' behaviour) will drag on considerably," he said.     The latest turmoil in the financial market was triggered by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker as he threatened a futher dollar fall in retaliation for higher West German interest rate rises, and undermined foreign investors' confidence in the dollar, Tsuda said.     The U.S. economy is still sitting on the time bomb of huge budget and trade deficits, he said, and investors' worries over the twin problems have intensified.     "Before I thought the dollar's large fall (over the past two years) would take out the detonator out of that bomb, but it hasn't," Tsuda said.     Investors and brokers said the Japanese for the first time have experienced the enormous volatality of the New York stock market, often caused by "program trading."     A stock trader at Daiwa Securities America Inc said that while Japanese investors had been attracted by American firms' superior performance relative to Japanese firms in terms of earnings per share, U.S. stocks' downside potential is now much larger than that oJapanese stocks.     While the Japanese stock market has also taken a nosedive, it could be stabilized by the efforts of large Japanse firms.     A high percentage of Japanese equities are held by companies who will hold on to their stocks and the stocks of other Japanese firms in order to strengthen their business ties through this cross-holding relationship, analysts said.     Despite the massacare on the Wall Street, Japanese investors are not expected to withdraw from U.S. stocks.     U.S. equities are in a process to be built in diversification of their portfolios and the portion of them is still very small, Japanese investors said. But, it is unclear when the Japanese will resume purchasing U.S. stocks and much depends on the dollar's stability, they said.     Kondo of Yasuda Trust said Japanese investors are not fully convinced that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan is determined to fend the dollar's value and check future inflation in the U.S.     Because of uncertainty over the dollar's direction and inflation in the U.S., Japanese investors have not yet jumped on the Treasury bonds despite the latest sharp bond yield rises, investors said.     Konishi of Sumitomo Life said "A U.S. recession is being talked about, so it may be time to shift back to bonds, but I feel uneasy about buying any U.S. instruments right now."     Tsuda of Nissei questioned the strength of the recent rally in U.S. government bond prices. He said the steep bond market rally has no real trend as bond prices are rising on short covering and bills are rising on temporary fund shift from the stock market.  Reuter &#3;

