25-MAR-1987 12:10:38.98

GREENWOOD RESOURCES SAYS BANKS COULD FORECLOSE

<Greenwood Resources Inc>  said if it is unsuccessful in gaining shareholder approval for a debt refinancing with Colorado National Bankshares Inc <COLC>, the bank will have the right to foreclose on Greenwood's assets.     On January 28, Greenwood's board approved an agreement with Colorado National calling for the sale of 4,300,000 shares of New London Oil owned by Greenwood for 1,700,000 dlrs and calling for a restructuring and recapitalizing of Greenwood, subject to shareholder approval.     As a result of declines in the value of oil and natural gas properties brought on by the fall in prices for those fuels, Greenwood started facing substantial bank debt prepayment requirements in 1986.     The New London shares are to be sold to a party in London.     On February 1, Colorado National released to the company all cash flow from oil and natural gas operations and reduced its debt in return for the payment of 1,700,000 dlrs from the sale of the New London stock and other considerations.  Eighty pct of Greenwood's cash flow from oil and gas operations had been allocated to servicing debt to the bank.     Under the deal with Colorado National, existing preferred and common stocks would be converted into a new common stock, subject to shareholder approval.     The company said it expects to file proxy materials for the special meeting of shareholders at which the matter will be considered by the first week of April, mail material to shareholders by early May and schedule the meeting for about 30 days thereafter.     It said its 1985 audit -- not conducted at the end of that year due to lack of funds -- is being conducted now, along with the 1986 audit, by Touche Ross and Co.     Greenwood said as soon as its 1985 audit is completed, it will apply for readmission to the NASDAQ system, from which it was delisted last year.     It also said it probably plans to change its name to Greenwood Holdings due to its planned redirection from natural resources.  Reuter &#3;

