18-JUN-1987 20:20:39.69

OTTAWA WIDENS SALES TAX, STUDIES REPLACEMENT

Canada will broaden a federal sales tax levied on manufacturers before scrapping the system in favor of a broad based, multi-staged sales tax, finance minister Michael Wilson said.      As expected, Wilson did not include a new sales tax system as part of his wide-ranging tax reforms tabled in the House of Commons today.     Instead, the federal government will make interim changes to the existing sales tax to make it more fair for low and middle income Canadians.     "The present (sales) tax is fundamentally flawed. It is a hidden, arbitrary and capricious tax," Wilson told the House of Commons.     The existing federal sales tax system hurts the Canadian economy by putting more tax on Canadian produced goods than imported goods and adding a hidden tax on Canadian exports that makes them less competitive, Wilson said.      Interim changes effective January 1, 1988 will include:      -- applying the federal sales tax to marketing companies related to manufacturers      -- levying the tax at the wholesale level instead of the manufacturer for a selected range of products      -- applying a 10 pct sales tax to telecommunication services, except for residential telephone lines      -- quicker collection of federal sales taxes.      To offset these changes for low income Canadians, refundable tax credits will be increased to 70 dlrs from 50 dlrs for adults and to 35 dlrs from 25 dlrs for children, the finance department said.      Ottawa is considering three alternative forms for a new sales tax, including a goods and services tax, a value added tax and a national sales tax that would combine existing federal and provincial levies into one system, Wilson told the House of Commons.      He said the federal government will explore the possibility of one national sales tax with Canada's 10 provincial governments. All provinces except Albeta now levy a provincial sales of tax of varying amounts.      Wilson said one joint system would be simpler for taxpayers and maximize economic benefits of tax reform.      If Ottawa and the provinces can't agree on a national sales tax system, Wilson said the federal government will consider either a goods and services tax or a value-added tax.      A goods and services tax would apply at one rate to virtually all goods and services in Canada and would include further increases in refundable tax credits for low and middle income Canadians, the finance department said in documents accompanying Wilson's speech.      A federal value-added tax, similar to European tax systems, would also be broad based but would allow more flexibility to exempt selected goods and services, the department said. The finance deparment said the main drawback of a value added tax is that it would be more complex and costly to implement than the other two proposals.  Reuter &#3;

