 2-MAR-1987 14:09:40.87

GOVERNMENT BOND BROKER SEES WIDER DATA ACCESS

The major U.S. Government bond brokers are likely to give in to pressure from regulators and investors within the next 18 months, making their direct-dealing screens available to many of those firms that are not now eligible to receive them, said Richard Lacy, Chairman of Exco International Inc.     Earlier today, Exco said it purchased an 80 pct interest in RMJ Holdings Corp, one of the largest of the four bond brokers that dominate the business.     In a telephone interview, Lacy said "Within 18 months, we think the number of players will be expanded."     Currently, the four major brokers will sell their direct-dealing screens to only primary dealers in U.S. Government securities or those that have applied to the Federal Reserve Bank of New york to become a primary dealer.     The U.S. Justice department is looking into whether limiting access to the screens to just a small group of dealers is a violation of U.S. Anti-trust laws.     Primary dealers, of which there are now 40, are an elite group of firms approved to buy Treasury securities directly from the Fed.     But Lacy said that any agreement to expand access to the brokers' direct-dealing screens is likely to be not as far-reaching as some would like. Instead of making screens available to any firm willing to pay for one, he said, it is more likely that a "second tier" will be established.     He also said that RMJ is not willing to break away from the group of bond brokers and be the only firm to make its screens widely available to any one who wants them.     Bond market sources had speculated that RMJ is better prepared to offer its services nationwide than its three major competitors.     Lacy also said that he does not see any immediate pressure for a further cut in commissions paid on bond transactions any time soon. In late 1985, transaction fees paid to brokers were cut in half to 39 dlrs per mln dlr transaction from 78 dlrs.     Some U.S. primary bond dealers have been suggesting that with further increases in transaction volume, fees can be cut without hurting the brokers' profits.  REUTER &#3;

