25-MAR-1987 15:16:28.97

JUSTICE, DOT BACK AIRLINE ANTITRUST SWITCH

Strong competition remains in the airline industry despite a recent wave of mergers, a Transportation Department official said.     But Assistant Transportation Secretary Matthew Scocozza said at a Senate antitrust committee hearing he would not object to a transfer of the department's authority over airline mergers to the Justice Department.     Scocozza and Deputy Assistant Attorney General Roger Andewelt said both departments felt airlines should be judged under the same antitrust standards as all other industries.     The Transportation Department is due to lose its authority in 1989, but subcommittee chairman Howard Metzenbaum wants it shifted now because he feels the Department has approved too many airline mergers.     "Airline mergers have proceeded at a breakneck pace with barely a whimper being uttered by the Department of Transportation. Nine airlines control 94 per cent of the market," the Ohio Democrat said.     Metzenbaum said he was concerned about the effects the pending U.S.-Air-Piedmont Airlines merger would have on service, especially at Dayton, Ohio, a major Piedmont hub.     Scocozza said even with the recent mergers, such as Texas Air Corp's acquisition of Eastern Air Lines and People Express, more airlines were flying now in the United States than before the 1978 airline deregulation act.     "Airline deregulation has worked, is working, and, given the department's commitment to preserving a competitive environment, will continue to work," Scocozza said.     He said the department considers the effect each merger will have on competition over all the routes involved and will not approve a merger which will reduce competition.     Scocozza said most of the recent mergers involved airlines in financial difficulty being taken over by other carriers.      Andewelt said he was optimistic competition would increase as airlines expanded airport hubs and routes and believed the industry did not need special treatment under antitrust laws.     "It is time to treat the airline industry in precisely the same way as other U.S. industries; any differences are not significant for the purpose of merger analysis," Andewelt said.  Reuter &#3;

