25-MAR-1987 18:47:03.54

MACAO TO KEEP EXISTING SYSTEM FOR 50 YEARS

Portuguese Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva said Portugal would hand back Macao to China on December 20, 1999, but added the existing political, economic and social system there would be maintained until the year 2050.     Cavaco Silva, speaking on national television hours before the initialling in Peking of an agreement on the handover, said that under the accord Macao would be a special administrative region of China and would have a large measure of autonomy.     Under the accord, Portuguese administration of the territory would end on December 20, 1999 but the existing system there would be maintained until the year 2050, Cavaco Silva said.     "The existing way of life in Macao, the Portuguese laws, basically our political, economic and social system, will remain in force for a further 63 years from now," he said.     Cavaco Silva said he would go to Peking in the first half of next month to formally sign the agreement with China, which would then be submitted to Portugal's parliament for approval.     Cavaco Silva said that after Portuguese administration of Macao formally ended in 1999, the future government of the territory would enjoy complete autonomy except in the areas of defence and foreign relations. It would however be able to make economic, trade and finance agreements with other countries.     The head of government would be named on the basis of elections held for the post.     Macao would have an elected legislative assembly and an independent judiciary. There would be religious freedom, a free press and freedom of expression. The Portuguese language could continue to be used in the government, assembly and courts.     Cavaco Silva said the current financial system would continue after the year 2000. The existing banks and freedom of capital movements would be maintained as would the convertibility of the pataca as the territory's monetary unit and the legal protection of foreign investment.     Only the Macao government would be able to collect taxes.     Cavaco Silva said that those among Macao's 400,000 population who held Portuguese nationality on the date of the handover would thereafter continue to be able to use their Portuguese passports and their nationality rights.     The nationality issue had been one of the points of disagreement in the complex handover talks.     The special administrative status to be granted to Macao after its handover mirrors a similar accord for the nearby British colony of Hong Kong, which reverts back to Chinese rule in 1997 under a 1984 Sino-British agreement.  Reuter &#3;

