 2-APR-1987 06:25:17.70

H.K. STOCK EXCHANGE MULLS NEW RULE FOR "B" SHARES

The Hong Kong Stock Exchange is considering new rules governing different classes of shares following a spate of new "B" share issues by leading local firms, exchange chairman Ronald Li said.     He told reporters the rules will allow settlement of "A" share transactions with cheaper "B" shares at a ratio equivalent to their par values. But "A" shares cannot be used to settle transactions of "B" shares.     Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd <JARD.HK>, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd <CKGH.HK> and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK> have all announced proposals for issuing "B" shares.     These would have substantially reduced par values but would have voting rights equal to the existing shares or "A" shares.     Li said the exchange does not want to restrict the issue of "B" shares but it is concerned about huge discrepancies between market prices of existing "A" and "B" stocks.     The exchange said yesterday it will not accept further proposals by listed firms to issue such new shares.     Li said that if the exchange did not take action numerous other companies would make similar issues. <Evergo Industrial Enterprise Ltd>, now suspended from trading, has already made such a proposal, he added.     Li said the exchange will consult legal advisers in Britain for the proposals from Cheung Kong, Hutchison and Jardine Matheson. If the rules of settlement cannot be implemented, the three firms must present alternative methods to guarantee reasonable price differentials between the "A" and "B" shares.     Both Jardine and Hutchison declined comment. But local newspapers quoted Cheung Kong's director Albert Chow as saying the firm will withdraw its issue if the new rule is approved.     Analysts have said the "B" shares are designed largely to protect the interests of majority shareholders. There is little liquidity in them and they trade at big discounts.     Stock brokers noted the "A" shares of Swire Pacific Ltd <SWPC.HK> closed at 22 H.K. Dlrs today while the "B" shares ended at 3.95 dlrs. The stocks have a par value of 60 and 12 cents respectively, or a one-to-five ratio. At those levels that represents an "A" share premium of about 11.4 pct over the "B" shares.     Li said the exchange has not considered any measures against existing "B" stocks. Other existing "B" stocks are all issued by units of Wharf (Holdings) Ltd <KOWL.HK>, including <Hong Kong Realty and Trust Co Ltd>, <Lane Crawford Holdings Ltd> and <Realty Development Corp Ltd>.   REUTER &#3;

