 8-APR-1987 10:56:40.19

MEDICAL JOURNAL REPORTS NEW INTERLEUKIN PROMISE

Promising new findings in the use of a controversial experimental drug called Interleukin-2 as a cure for cancer will be published in the April 9 issue of the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine, according to a Wall Street analyst who has obtained an advance copy of the magazine.     Among interleukin's principal U. S. makers are Cetus Corp <CTUS>, headquartered in Emeryville, Calif., and Immunex Corp <IMNX>, based in Seattle, Wash.     The journal, to be released late today, contains two articles reporting high remission rates several cancer types.     The journal also contains a signed editorial concluding that the new results mark a significant milestone in the search for a successful immunotherapy for cancer.     Interleukin-2, also known as IL-2, is a substance naturally produced by living cells in the laboratory.     The drug is controversial because it was widely praised as a promising cancer treatment in early reports on its effectiveness in late 1985, only to come under criticism a year later for its failure to live up to its promise and due to its ravaging side effects.     One of the new studies, conducted by Dr. William West of Biotherapeutics Inc of Franklin, Tenn., is particularly significant because it found far fewer harsh side effects after it changed the way in which the drug is administered.     In that study, researchers administered IL-2 to 48 cancer patients and found a 50-pct remission rate for kidney cancers and a 50 pct remission rate for melanoma, a type of skin cancer, according to Prudential-Bache Securities' Stuart Weisbrod, who obtained the advance copy of the magazine.     For rectal and colon cancer, the researchers found no remissions, but none of the 48 patients treated had side effects serious enough to be placed under intensive hospital care, according to the article.     In the second study, whose principal author is Dr. Steven Rosenberg of the National Cancer Institute, researchers administered IL-2 to 157 cancer patients and found a 33 pct remission rate in cancers of the kidney, a 27 pct rate in melanomas and a 15 pct rate in cancers of the colon and rectum.     In the National Cancer Institute trials, a total of four patients died, the magazine reported, confirming the harshness of the drug's side effects as originally administered.     "Perhaps we are at the end of the beginning of the search for successful immunotherapy for cancer," said the editorial, signed by John Durant of Philadelphia's Chase Cancer Center.     "These observations reported by Rosenberg and West surely did not describe successful practical approaches ready for widespread applications in the therapy of cancer patients," the editorial said.     "On the other hand, if they reflect, as seems possible, a successful manipulation of the cellular immune system, then we may be near the end of our search for a meaningful direction in the immunuotherapy of cancer," the editorial concluded.  Reuter &#3;

