 3-MAR-1987 18:23:56.61

GM <GM> BUYBACK SEEN CALMING SHAREHOLDERS

Wall Street analysts said a share repurchase program announced by General Motors Corp is in part an attempt to placate shareholders angry over the recent repurchase of shares from Texan H. Ross Perot last year.     "He (Perot) was obviously the big trigger" said analyst Joseph Phillippi of E.F. Hutton Co. "There was a firestorm of criticism from people on the institutional side."     Wall Street analysts said the GM buyback will boost the shares in the near term but some had reservations about the long term effects of the plan.     "They're trying to soothe irate shareholders irriated by the buyout of Ross Perot," said analyst David Healy of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.     Healy said General Motors chairman Roger Smith had been hinting at a buyback program in meetings with institutional investors. He said the plan, which could cost more than five billion dlrs over four years, was similar in size to Ford Motor Co's <F> repurchase program but smaller on a percentage basis than that of Chrysler Corp <C>.     Healy said General Motors will have to borrow money to buy back stock on a large scale.     The General Motors plan, announced after a board of directors meeting in New York, calls for repurchase of up to 20 pct of the common stock by the end of 1990.     The GM board also authorized repurchase of up to five mln class E <GME> and class H <GMH> shares. GM shares closed at 75-5/8, up 7/8, in composite trading prior to the company's announcement. However subsequently Jefferies and Co, which trades NYSE-listed issues outside regular hours, said it was making a market in the shares at 77-1/2 to 78.     "The stock is obviously going to be strong tomorrow," said Ronald Glantz, analyst at Montgomery Securities.     "I don't know where the money (for the buyback) is coming from unless they borrow," Glantz said. "Their credit rating is going to fall." GM said it anticipates a decrease in automotive capital spending.     Glantz believes GM could be inviting a strike this fall by going ahead with the buyback program at a time when it has 37,000 employees on indefinite layoff and 11 plants marked for closing. After deciding against a profit sharing bonus for workers and buying out Perot for 743 mln dlrs "this will be seen as rubbing salt into the wound," Glantz said. "GM must be challenging the union to make it the strike target."     Glantz said he is not changing his buy recommendation on GM and expects the shares to rise. But he said he did not think the overall plan was "prudent."     "Obviously we're going to get at least an opening gap in the stock tomorrow," Hutton's Phillippi said.     He says GM apparently believes as a result of a cost reduction program plus the falloff in capital spending levels "they can handle a stock buyback of this magnitude within the confines of their cash flow." Phillippi, who has been telling clients to hold GM shares mainly for income, said on balance "we've got to feel they're doing something constructive."  Reuter &#3;

