31-MAR-1987 04:35:39.64

CHINA REFORMS TO TAKE DECADES, NO ALTERNATIVE

China's economic reforms will take decades to fulfill and will outlast the life of any leader because they are the only way to save the country from poverty, an economist in one of the country's top think tanks told Reuters.     But He Weiling, Washington representative of the China Economic System Reform Institute, said China's economic reforms definitely are not at risk from the nationwide drive since January against "bourgeois liberalism," a phrase meaning Western political ideas.     He said "bourgeois liberalism" is not affecting departments dealing with economics.     His is one of a small number of key institutes, set up in the early 1980s, which formulate economic reform policies and advise the top leadership on them.     Discussing subjects raised in the budget speech last week, which put the 1986 and 1987 deficits at more than 15 billion yuan because of excessive consumer demand and capital construction plus falling efficiency in state firms, He said reform of state firms and the financial system is the key goal for 1987.     "The most difficult thing is to strike the balance between making them independent units and the need for central control," He said.     "We are exploring ways of doing this, through joint stock ownership, leasing, factory management responsibility systems or in other ways," he added.     One of the most serious problems facing China's leaders is how to curb excess investment in capital construction, especially in projects outside the state plan.     He said this problem is chronic in all socialist economies.     This is because firms are judged on output, not profitability or efficiency.     "Firms use every excuse to get money and materials. They say they want money to build offices but in fact use it to build apartments, which is unauthorised," He said.     "Also, it is not good to report profits, which would mean higher tax payments. It is better to report a loss," he added.     He said China's state firms are continuing a 5,000-year-old tradition when they under-report their assets in order to reduce claims on them by higher authority.     He said China will have to improve auditing, economic regulations and the tax system, which he described as "chaotic," especially at the lower levels, in order to deal with under-reporting.     "Another important step is to further develop the money markets to give firms an opportunity to invest. They need channels for this which they do not have now. Without this, there will be no genuine supply and demand for money," he said.     As a reform to encourage efficiency, China now supplies state firms with loans instead of grants as in the past.     But He said the reforms have not resulted in much real change because the loans carry low-interest. "So some efficient firms have not been able to get money from banks."     Price reform has been one of the most sensitive aspects of the reform programme. Widespread discontent over price rises forced the government to promise in January that there will be no major increases in 1987.     He said the price of steel, timber and cement and other industrial raw materials only will "rise gradually" this year.     Large-scale price adjustments would have an adverse psychological impact and create social discontent.     "We must preserve unity and popular support," he said, but "sometimes, the common people must make a sacrifice, like those of Germany and Japan after 1945."     He said restrictions on a wide range of prices, including most farm and light industrial products, have been lifted and many intermediate pricing schemes scrapped over the last eight years.     "It will take at least 15 to 20 years to complete an overhaul of the price system. We must move carefully. We have no model to work from and have only ourselves to rely on," He said.     He said the greatest fear expressed by foreigners is that reform and open-door policies will not survive the death of certain elderly leaders.     He did not name top leader Deng Xiaoping, 82, the chief architect of both policies since 1979.     "These fears are unfounded. The two policies have already become the basic national policy of China. The reforms are irreversible. China is one of the poorest 25 countries in the world. Without the reforms, how are we to escape from this poverty?"  REUTER &#3;

