20-OCT-1987 04:21:55.55

WILL WORLD RECESSION FOLLOW STOCK MARKET PLUNGE?

Some economists fear a world recession if stock exchanges continue to plunge. Others are more sanguine.     The pessimists say the stocks shakeout is destroying personal assets and dampening consumption.     "The real economic effects can be significant -- the destruction of wealth and a deflationary impact on the economy," said an economist at a U.S. Securities house.     But other economists said such fears were overblown.     "Because of lower appreciation of corporate or personal assets, that much negative impact could be observed (in the U.S.)," said Keikichi Honda, general manager of economic research at the Bank of Tokyo Ltd.     "But the appreciation of stock prices has not been playing such a major role in the entire U.S. Gross national product (GNP)," Honda said.     The pessimists noted that the record fall on Wall Street on Monday was sparked by fears the U.S. Economy is heading for a recession or serious slowdown much earlier than expected.     But the optimists said a dampening effect on consumption due to stock market losses was less likely in Japan.     "In Japan the weight of stocks in individuals' total assets is less than in the U.S., And the total weight of individuals' holdings in the stock market is less, so there will be less damage than in the U.S.," said an economist at one of Japan's major brokerage houses.     "Japan is taking strong measures to stimulate domestic demand, so while there could be some impact from the reduction of assets value, it would not be a major impact," said the Bank of Tokyo's Honda.     Optimists also pointed to incipient declines in U.S. Interest rates as a positive sign for the U.S. Economy.     "U.S. Interest rates are coming down so there is a feeling that interest rates have hit their ceiling, and the U.S. Economy is strong, so there should be no direct impact from the collapse of share prices," said Toshiaki Kakimoto, Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist.     Some economists suggested that should markets continue to slump, the major industrial nations may have to discuss possible joint lowering of official discount rates.     "Until last week, a discussion of lower rates was unthinkable, now it's not," said the Japanese brokerage house economist.     "There has been a move from the purely rational to the emotional -- it's a central bankers' nightmare," said the foreign economist. "It will require strong global leadership by politicians to snuff out," he said.     However, "previously, the stocks correction was due to fears of higher interest rates, a possible resurgence of inflation and the depreciation of the dollar," said Nobuyuki Ueda, senior economist at the Long-Term Credit Bank Ltd.     "Now some people have an uneasy feeling about the outlook of the U.S. Economy," Ueda said.     "If the stock market is a leading indicator of the future movement of the economy, this decline will have very significant implications for the U.S. Economy," he said.     "If the low levels hold, those who were keeping consumption high because of unrealised gains could curb consumption," said Salomon Brothers (Asia) Ltd economist Ron Napier. "If the paper gains aren't there, people won't spend."     A U.S. Recession could then trigger similar declines in other economies, some economists said.     "I don't know if a possible recession in the U.S. Would trigger a world recession because other nations, such as Japan, are showing good economic performance," LTCB's Ueda said. "But we can't rule out the possibility because the U.S. Is still playing a very dominant role in the world economy."  REUTER &#3;

