 4-MAR-1987 18:02:51.76

NYMEX OUTGOING CHAIRMAN SEES MAJOR CHANGES

Trading in energy futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange will change dramatically over the next five to 10 years as the market matures, according to outgoing chairman Michel Marks.     "Energy futures trading is going through a tremendous period of transition that will last five to 10 years," Marks said, adding that volume will soar, international participation will increase, and activity of producing countries, major oil companies, and speculators will grow.     Marks steps down as chairman after an nine-year tenure when board elections are held March 17. He will continue as chairman of a long-range planning committee at NYMEX.     "The priority of the next 10 years is operational efficiency versus the last 10 years when it was new product development," said Marks.     Marks said it is imperative for NYMEX, which is running out of trading space, to process greater volumes expeditiously in order to handle the growth in volumes and new contracts that are already planned.     Marks said crude futures volume could more than double by the end of the decade to 250,000 contracts daily and combined products volume could soar to  100,000 contracts a day.     Much of the increased activity will come from the international sector, according to Marks. "That's a huge growth area," he said, adding that it will run the gamut from foreign producer countries to foreign independent operators.      He said it would be difficult to develop a futures contract based on an internationally traded crude although he previously said the exchange is exploring that possibility.     "Trying to develop a futures contract in any other crude besides West Texas Intermediate will be a tough task" he said.      Marks said it is more likely a futures contract based on an international product rather than an international crude will be developed since the products market is more diverse. He said previously the exchange is studying the possibility of developing a non-U.S. deliverable products contract.     Other sources of growth for U.S. energy futures are the major oil companies, which already trade on the NYMEX, and institutional funds such as investment houses, pension funds, and insurance companies, Marks said.     "The commodities markets have become financial markets and should pursue a partnership with financial intermediaries," Marks said.     He said speculators will increase their share of the energy futures markets in the coming years from the current  share of about 30 pct. Hedgers, as a result, will lose some of their 70 pct share.  Reuter &#3;

