13-APR-1987 14:17:16.75

TECHNOLOGY/COMPETITION FOR SATELLITE

Some of the United States' largest aerospace firms are competing with some of the world's most powerful nations for a chance to cash in on the coming commercialization of space.       The newest space race is for contracts to launch privately owned satellites into orbit - a business expected to be worth two billion to five billion dlrs annually in a few years.     The growing opportunities to make money in space will be highlighted this month when the U.S. National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration seeks lucrative commercial bids to lauch future weather satellites, ending its long-standing dependence on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.     Companies and countries with established satellite launching operations may also get a jump on eventually providing other space-based services, particularly if the proposed international manned space station is launched as planned in the early 1990s.     The 12 billion dlr space station, first proposed by President Reagan in 1984, could require as many as 16 cargo deliveries a year, many delivered by private firms. The partners in the space station are currently slated to be Canada, Japan, and the 13-nation European Space Agency, the latter two of which also have or are developing their own commercial space programs.      Until the Challenger explosion in January 1986, NASA had a virtual lock on the world's commercial space cargo.     But after a re-evaluation of the shuttle program, President Reagan declared last August that future U.S. shuttle flights will no longer carry commercial payloads.     The administration's decision left Arianespace, a French-led European consortium, the only option available to satellite owners and the concern quickly sold out all its planned flights through 1989.     The company also raised its prices, from 30,000 dlrs a launch to 50,000 dlrs, but even the larger price tag did not dampen demand. Arianespace sighned 18 new contracts last year, compared with 11 in 1985.     Those kind of tariffs have caused even non-capitalist countries to try and get a piece of the action.     China, the Soviet Union and Japan have all announced satellite launch programs and several U.S. firms, including McDonnell Douglas Corp, General Dynamics Corp and Martin Marietta promised to spend mlns of dollars over the next three years to develop their own satellite launch capabilities.     There will be some tremendous pent-up demand for satellite launches by then, analysts said. Without Challenger, there were only three satellite launches last year, 15 fewer than in 1985 and the lowest since 1980, when only two were sent up.     Ariane expects to launch from six to eight satellites a year for the next three years, about 75 pct of the world's satellite launches during that period.      McDonnell Douglas scored the biggest coup of the U.S. firms in January when it won a 734 mln dlr U.S. Air Force pact for up to 20 unmanned rockets to launch military satellites. The contract is expected to underwrite the company's efforts to build rockets for private satellite launches.       Martin Marietta, however, was the first U.S. company to sign up a client, Federal Express Co. Marietta plans to launch an ExpressStar communications satellite in 1989.     Marietta said it will also build a version of its Titan rockets used by the Air Force to other private companies that want to get into the satellite launch buisiness.     Arianespace director Charles Bigot said the U.S. companies will probably become the European firm's biggest competitors for satellite launching. He does not expect the national space programs to become commercially viable until the late 1990s.     Japan has expanded its space program, launching 38 government-owned satellites in the last 16 years. But most of them were small and it was only in February it launched its first satellite that circles the earth over the poles.     Japan also has yet to design and build its own rockets. The satellite launched in February was placed in orbit by a McDonnell Douglas-designed Delta rocket assembled by the Japanese under license.     Tsugo Tadakawa, director of the Washington office of Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA), said Japan plans to launch seven of its H-1 rockets, an American Japanese hybrid that replaces the Delta, through 1991. Its much larger sucessor, the H-II, should be ready by 1992, he said.     NASDA's annual budget is only about 800 mln dlrs, Tadakawa said, about 10 pct the size of NASA's yearly spending.     Still, NASDA is free from private competition at home and has the full support of the government, since aerospace was chosen by the Ministry of Trade and Information as one of the country's new industries for the next decade.      Surprisingly, the People's Republic of China, a relative newcomer to aerospace, is so far the most successful competitor to Ariane.     The country's Great Wall Industry Corp is the only national program besides the European consortium to win a private satellite contract. It will launch a Westar communications satellite for New-York based Terasat in 1988.  Reuter &#3;

