26-MAR-1987 15:35:19.41

U.K. DEALERS DOUBT HUGE JAPANESE CASH INFLUX

Many London equity dealers doubt whether the much publicised flood of Japanese investment into the U.K. Equity market will be as large as some analysts have forecast.     There has recently been much speculation that the Japanese would look towards the U.K. Stock market for investment opportunities on a much larger scale when the new fiscal year begins next month. Last October's reorganisation of the stock market, known as 'Big Bang', paved the way for greater participation by overseas investors.     Some analysts believe the Japanese have earmarked massive sums for investment in Europe.     Both the London and Tokyo markets have moved ahead strongly since the start of this year. But London has lagged behind in real terms and therefore is now beginning to look like giving a better return on any funds that are reserved for equity investment. Sterling's firmness also means there are profits to be made from the currency turn. However, many equity dealers polled by Reuters think that the Japanese will shy away from London and continue to invest in instruments such as U.S. Government securities.     Even if they do diversify from their old stamping grounds they will head for the U.S. Equity market before they come to the European stock markets, one dealer predicted.     "The Japanese, although very aggressive in markets that they know, tend to be more conservative in those they don't...Even if they do come to London in a big way they would tend to go more for the fixed interest gilt edged market rather than the more volatile equities," he added.     He also cited the forthcoming U.K. General election as another factor in keeping Far Eastern money out of the London stock market.     "The Japanese do not like too much uncertainty and a general election creates just the kind that will keep them on the sidelines," one trader said.     There are also doubts whether the Japanese would find the track records of U.K. Companies strong enough to make them willing to invest heavily. "Our industrial and manufacturing output may be looking better, but it must still look pretty uninspiring to the Japanese," one broker said.     Some market participants, however, are a little more bullish and do expect more, although not a massive amount, of Far Eastern funds to come to London in the short term.     They point out that capital gains on U.S. Bonds, a market in which the Japanese are traditionally heavy players, have been eroded because of the fall in the U.S. Dollar and this could prompt them to move funds out of the U.S. But even those who are mildly bullish concede that Japanese investors on the London exchange would almost certainly confine themselves to longer term investment in 10 or 15 leading 'blue chip' issues, which may include industrial giants such as ICI, Hanson Trust, British Petroleum, Glaxo and Unilever.     One analyst said he believed if there was such investment in blue chip issues, recently privatised companies such as British Gas and British Telecom could be left out in the cold.     He said that with an election coming up, overseas investors would be worried that a Labour victory would bring a policy of re-nationalisation of such companies. The Labour party has in the past said it would do this.     Some of the recent rise in U.K. Equities has anticipated an increase in Japanese buying in the near future.  Reuter &#3;

