26-MAR-1987 13:29:49.49

CFTC SEES NO TRADING, TRIPLE WITCHING RULES

The chairman of the CFTC, Susan Phillips, said she does not expect the CFTC to restrict dual trading or to intervene in the quarterly expiration of stock index futures and their options.      "At this time we have no plans to reexamine our policy (on dual trading)," she told the House Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit and Rural Development.     She said it would not be appropriate to ban dual trading because it would decrease market liquidity.     Dual trading refers to the ability of futures commission merchants to trade for their own as well as their clients' accounts. Exchange rules prohibit a broker from attempting to benefit from the market impact of a client's order by trading on his own account before placing the client's order.     CFTC has required all futures exchanges by July 1 to have implemented audit trails permitting the reconstruction of all trades to the nearest minute. The move was designed in part to discourage abuse of dual trading.     The board of directors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange has proposed limiting but not banning dual trading in the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index future pit.     Phillips indicated the CFTC would not move beyond requiring improved audit trails in its effort to allay concerns about dual trading abuses.     "It would be inappropriate at this point until we see how the audit trail will work," she said in response to a question.     On triple-witching, Phillips said recent experiments by markets to quell price fluctuations have been quite successful and that users of securities and derivative instruments were still learning how to deal with the quarterly phenomenon.     Triple-witching refers to the simultaneous expiration of stock index futures, options on those futures and options on certain individual stocks.     The CFTC chairman noted the commission has heightened surveillance of markets on triple-witching day.     "We aren't sure any other regulatory changes are needed at this point," Phillips said.  Reuter &#3;

