 9-APR-1987 11:53:38.37

LLOYD'S OFFERS CASH IN BID TO END PCW AFFAIR

Lloyd's of London has offered to meet part of the 235 mln stg in claims that investors in PCW Underwriting Agencies face due to fraud and mismanagement, chairman Peter Miller said at a press conference.     Miller urged 3,000 PCW members to accept the offer so that the five-year-old affair could be closed.     The members have until May 30 to accept the offer, involving a 103 mln stg payment by Lloyd's and some of Lloyd's underwriters in exchange for a 34 mln stg contribution from PCW members, he said.     Miller said that at end-1985, PCW syndicates had gross liabilities of 680 mln stg.     To offset this, they had assets, including cash and payments from reinsurance policies on some of the risks underwritten by the syndicates, of 445 mln stg, leaving net liabilities of 235 mln, he said.     The total sum on offer, including a 48 mln stg payment from Lloyd's 311 mln stg contingency fund and 55 mln stg from Lloyd's brokers who could otherwise face court cases for their involvement in PCW, is designed to cover the full reinsurance cost for those 235 mln stg of net liabilities, Miller said.     Under the offer, which requires 90 pct acceptance, Lloyd's itself would take over all members' future obligations connected with the PCW syndicates, Miller said. Members would have to agree not to pursue the matter in court.     Miller said a rejection of the offer would probably lead to protracted litigation in court which, even if succesful for members, was unlikely to produce a better deal for them.     He added that acceptance would mean members could continue underwriting in the Lloyd's market and qualify for tax relief on the cash payments they would make towards the settlement.     Miller denied that PCW members would face bills of over 200,000 stg.     He said only 34 members would be asked to pay between 100,000 and 200,000 stg, and about 100 between 60,000 and 100,000 stg. Special arrangements would be sought for those who accept the offer but are unable to pay.     Miller said the offer did not imply Lloyd's accepted responsibility for the affair, uncovered in the late autumn of 1982 when "it became quite clear that (PCW agency founder) Peter Cameron Webb and (his partner) Peter Dixon had perpetrated theft upon members," he said.     Part of the sum involved was subsequently recovered and repaid to members, but Cameron Webb and Dixon left the affairs of PCW syndicates "in a state of chaos which led to a sharp deterioration of their underwriting results," Miller said. Both were fined by a Lloyd's disciplinary committee and expelled from membership.     He said Lloyd's would continue to seek reparation in British and U.S. Courts "with the utmost vigour ... To bring to a close one of the most shameful episodes in the history of Lloyd's," and was contemplating claiming the full amount of the settlement now on offer from Cameron Webb and Dixon.     In a reaction, insurance brokerage Sedgwick Group Plc <SDWK.L> said it supported Lloyd's proposals and had contributed 10 mln stg towards the proposed settlement.     It said in a statement, "as largest broker in the Lloyd's market, the company has an essential interest in maintaining the reputation of the market. That reputation has been damaged by problems at PCW and will continue to be so as long as they remain unresolved." It had contributed to the proposed settlement to avoid costs related to the defence of some of its subsidiaries which had been named as potential defendants to litigation by PCW members, it said.  Reuter &#3;

