19-MAR-1987 09:39:43.34

JEFFERIES <JEFG> CHAIRMAN PLEADING GUILTY, QUITS

Jefferies Group Inc said founder and chairman Boyd L. Jefferies has resigned and intends to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating federal securities laws.     The company said neither Boyd Jefferies nor the company ever engaged in insider trading and neither he nor the company ever sought or communicated insider information or violated ny trust of confidence placed in them by customers.  It said no governmental authority has ever alleged any such activity on Boyd Jefferies' part or the part of the company.     The company said Boyd Jefferies has consented to an administrative order barring him from the securities business for at least five years and he has agreed to place his 13 pct holding in Jefferies Group stock in a voting trust during that period.     The company said, without admitting any allegations made by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Boyd Jefferies, Jefferies Group and primary brokerage subsidiary Jefferies and Co also consented to an injunction barring any future securities laws violations.     It said Jefferies and Co has agreed further to undertake reviews to assure that its internal recordkeeping and other control systems are in compliance with federal laws.     The company said president and chief operating officer Frank E. Baxter will assume the added duties of chief executive officer.  Boyd Jefferies had been chief executive.     The company said the criminal charges against Boy Jefferies resulted from a transaction in which, on behalf of Jefferies and Co, he agreed to purchase stocks from entities controlled by Ivan F. Boesky and later resell the stock to the Boesky firms.     It said "Within days of the purchase, the market value of one of the stocks fell sharply and, pursuant to their agreement, a Boesky entity paid Jefferies and Co three mln dlrs to offset the loss.     The company said Boyd Jefferies will admit that following the loss he ordered that Boesky receive a bill for three mln dlrs for investment advisory and corporate finance services, although Jefferies and Co treated the three mln dlrs as an offset to the losses it experienced.     It said by rendering the involice, Boyd Jefferies apparently enabled one of the Boesky entities to make a false entry in its books, resulting in the charge, to which Boyd Jefferies will plead guilty, of aiding and abetting one of the Boesky firms in making false entries on its books.     The company said Boyd Jefferies will also plead guilty to a margin violation resulting from a transaction in which he caused Jefferies and Co to buy shares at the request of a customer in the company's trading account.     It was expected that the customer would be responsible for any loss on the shares and would also receive any profit, and because the customer had not put up any funds for the purchase, Boyd Jefferies had in effect caused Jefferies and Co to finance the full purchase price for the shares in violation of margin requirements, the company said.     The company quoted Boyd Jefferies as saying, "I fully accept sole responsibility for these transactions.  I think it is appropriate that I suffer the consequences for my actions rather than the company."     Jefferies Group said it expects no impact on its operations or client base from Boyd Jefferies' departure.  Reuter &#3;

