 4-MAR-1987 10:40:23.36

DIGITAL EQUIPMENT <DEC> SEEKS COST EFFECTIVENESS

Digital Equipment said it is taking several initiatives designed to make it easier and more cost effecive for customers to purchase and use its products and services.     The company also said it is introducing three new mid-range VAX systems.     Digital stated the moves "further strengthened its leadership position in the computer industry."     The company said it also adjusted prices acrossall product lines to more accurately reflect performance and customer value.     Digital said the new products -- the VAX 8250, VAX 8350 and VZX 8530 systems -- replace earlier models and provide up to 40 pct increased performance.     It said the new "systems reflect Digital's ability to sustain its present leadership in integrated, networked systems."     Effective today, the company said, it is adopting new business practices to remain responsive to the needs of customers and the rapidly changing marketplace, specifically the trend towards distributed, networked operations.     Digital said it is instituting a discount structure based on total enterprise purchase of hardware and software. Purchases for resale are included within this simplified Discount structure.     The company said it now has a one-year warranty on all hardware, including VAX and PDP systems, all options and peripherals. In addition, customers can select to extend their hardware warranties up to three years at the time of purchase.     Digital said its new software licensing policy simplifies the transfer of software within a company and includes rellicensing procedures for used equipment.     Digital said it has instituted uniform quantity pricing on all product list prices with increases to reflect full system value on high functionality systems and software.     Without providing any details, it also said the are price reductions of up to 50 pct on selected memories and disks.     "Based on the analysis of product mix, price adjustments will generally result in minimal net impact in costs in a typical user enterprise," it added.  Reuter &#3;

