26-MAR-1987 02:23:26.00

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - HONG KONG'S MORE ACTIVE ROLE

Hong Kong's government has long kept intervention in the economy to a minimum in the belief that when it comes to business, businessmen generally know best.     But the government is slowly being forced to take a more active economic role, partly to face the challenge from fast growing economies like South Korea and Taiwan and economic powerhouse Japan, businessmen said.     The government announced this month it will spend six mln H.K. Dlrs over the next two years to encourage electronics firms to send engineers for training overseas.     The engineers will learn design of application specific integrated circuits (ASIC) used in products ranging from personal computers to high-technology toys that talk.     The government has funded vocational training before but this will be its first such program aimed at bringing back advanced technology from overseas.     Government officials told Reuters that other areas in the electronics sector are being considered for similar treatment.     Hong Kong's key electronics industry last year accounted for exports of 61 billion H.K. Dlrs, though the total includes sales of electrical machinery and other items.     Officials said that this key sector, second only to textiles in terms of exports, needs high technologies already available in neighbouring economies if it is to compete.     "Belatedly, we realize there are some technologies which can't be taught here," said K.Y. Yeung, Director of Industry.     A study by U.S. Research firm Dataquest Inc last year showed that Hong Kong's share of U.S. Consumer electronic imports had fallen to 3.5 pct in 1985 from 6.4 pct in 1983.     South Korea, Taiwan and Japan all take a more active role in guiding economic development and policy makers are worried that perhaps some assistance -- albeit limited -- is needed.     "This is perceived to be an area of development for Hong Kong," said Lawrence Mills, director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. "Many industrialists think government should be more actively concerned with this area."     Hong Kong likes to call its policy "positive non-intervention," meaning that it helps industry mainly by maintaining economic stability and ensuring that needed roads and harbour facilities are in place.     It offers no special tax incentives for foreign investors, believing that its low corporate profits tax of 18 pct and personal income tax of 16.5 pct are sufficient.     But the government has been forced to gradually take a more active role in the economy. In the last three years it has stepped in to aid seven problem banks, taking over three of them, to protect depositors whose funds were not insured.     It has also expanded the powers of its banking and securities commissions to police these key economic sectors.     Industry officials said manufacturers need help acquiring expensive new technology, especially when returns on investment are years away. "This is only a small start but it will help make this technology more readily available," said an engineer with a major U.S. Electronics firm in Hong Kong.     Texas Instruments Inc <TXN> and Motorola Inc <MOT> of the U.S. And Japan's Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> already conduct ASIC design work in Hong Kong, while a handful of firms have committed funds for capital-intensive production.     Under the industry department program, companies would be funded to train engineers overseas but those employees would be required to apply their new skills locally for an as yet unspecified period.     "We want to promote ASIC design and eventually production in Hong Kong," said Yeung of the Industry Department.     Some industrialists said it will take more than a training program to keep electronics manufacturers competitive in the years ahead. Government officials said most manufacturers in the industry are small scale, employing fewer than 100 people.     These firms will not be able to afford expensive technology development programs, industry officials said.     The program has raised concerns that government may one day veer too far from its policy of minimal intervention. "They've reached the right decision," said Mills of the Federation of Industries. "But the fear (among some firms) is it might be a slippery slope towards interference."  REUTER &#3;

