19-MAR-1987 20:13:30.97

REAGAN DENIES TOLD IRAN PROFITS WENT TO CONTRAS

President Reagan denied he had been told that profits from sales of arms to Iran had been used to aid the U.S.-backed "contra" rebels in Nicaragua.     "No, that is not true," he said before a televised news conference when asked about reports that he had been told about the money diversion by his former National Security Adviser, John Poindexter.     Reagan was giving his first formal White House press conference in four months since the Iran arms affair burst into scandal with the disclosure profits from weapons sales had been diverted, possibly illegally, to the contras.     He said the secret approach to Iran had resulted in the release of three American hostages held by pro-Iranian elements in Lebanon and that it might have freed more if the operation had not been made public.     Reagan told reporters -- as he had told a presidential commission that investigated the scandal -- that he did not remember when he had approved an August, 1985, shipment of U.S. arms to Iran through Israel.     Reagan opened the news conference -- seen as vital in rebuilding his damaged presidency and restoring his authority -- with a statement on the yawning U.S. budget deficit.     He again stated his opposition to tax increases and called for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget.     Asked if in hindsight he would again start a secret program to sell arms to Iran, Reagan said, "No, I would not go down that same road again."     Tonight's news conference was widely seen as an opportunity for Reagan, 76, to demonstrate he was in command of affairs despite the crisis.     Reagan said, referring to the Iran arms program, "If I hadn't thought it was right in the beginning, I never would have started it."     He said he went into the deal because he was persuaded that he was not dealing directly with the kidnappers.     "You cannot do business with them," he said.     But "suddenly you have a third party there (Iran) ... and it was not trading with the kidnappers," he said.     The news conference in the White House East Room lasted 32 minutes -- two minutes more than normal -- most of which was devoted to the Iran affair.     At the last minute, a reporter asked whether Vice President George Bush had opposed the arms sales as Secretary of State George Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger had done.     Reagan replied, "No," smiled, waved and walked away from the podium toward the White House residence.  Reuter &#3;

