20-OCT-1987 06:36:57.59

JAPANESE STOCK PLUNGE RAISES FUNDING PROBLEMS

The massive plunge in Tokyo stock prices on Tuesday could rob the Government of much-needed revenue to spur Japan's economy, and may hurt banks' ability to lend abroad, analysts polled by Reuters said.     "The Japanese Government is depending on the sale of NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp <NCCT.T>) shares for much of its public spending budget," said Shigeo Suzuki, a deputy general manager at the Industrial Bank of Japan.     Japan had hoped to raise at least 5,000 billion yen from the sale of 1.95 mln NTT shares on November 10.     However, the 14.9 pct plunge in the Tokyo share index today has made such plans look unrealistic, analysts said.     "The government could defer the sale of NTT or they could offer fewer shares," said Keikichi Honda, general manager of economic research at the Bank of Tokyo Ltd.     Honda said another possibility is that the underwriters handling the NTT sale would have to pay the Government the amount it expected to get and bear the brunt of any losses themselves. "That is what underwriting means," he added.     A Finance Ministry official confirmed that the government planned to go ahead with its sale of NTT shares on November 10.     Another possible effect of Tokyo's stock tumble would be to seriously undermine the asset base of Japanese banks.     The banks lend money all over the world and regard the market value of stock holdings as assets, analysts said.     "Japanese banks make loans using perhaps as much as 60 to 70 pct of the market value of their unrealised stock holdings as assets," said Industrial Bank's Suzuki.     There is also concern that Japanese companies, which have invested heavily in Tokyo's stocks as their real business declined over the last two years, have sustained heavy losses.     "Many companies, mainly export-oriented companies, were planning on selling their shares for a profit to reinvest in real businesses as the economy begins to pick up," said one analyst at a foreign brokerage. "That prospect now looks dim."     But analysts said it is unlikely companies or financial institutions will be bankrupted by losses in stock trading.     "I don't think any company is so badly exposed in stock investments," said a senior analyst at Nomura Research Institute. "In terms of financial institutions, luckily the rebounding bond market and currency markets are still profitable," he added.     The Nomura analyst said a 10 pct decline in Tokyo stocks would be translated into a fall of about 0.2 pct in consumer spending. Some 20 pct of Tokyo stocks are owned by individuals.     Market capitalisation on the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell to 329,588 billion yen on Tuesday from 386,041 billion at Monday's close.     NTT shares ended 260,000 yen lower at 2.65 mln each, well down from their peak of 3.18 mln in April.  REUTER &#3;

