 4-MAR-1987 21:03:14.20

REAGAN ADMITS IRAN ARMS OPERATION A MISTAKE

President Reagan, fighting to regain public confidence in the wake of the Iran arms scandal, admitted tonight that the clandestine operation wound up as an arms-for-hostages deal and, "It was a mistake."     "When it came to managing the NSC (National Security Council) staff, let's face it, my style didn't match its previous track record," Reagan said in a television address to the American people.     "I have already begun correcting this," he added in his prepared remarks.     Reagan's speech, widely regarded as critical to his hopes of repairing his presidency, was his first detailed response to last week's scorching Tower commission report on the secret sale of arms to Iran and diversion of profits to U.S.-backed contra rebels in Nicaragua.     Reagan said he had been silent on the scandal while he waited for the truth to come out and admitted, "I've paid a price for my silence in terms of your trust and confidence."     He said that a few months ago, he told the American people he did not trade arms for hostages in the 18-month covert operation.     "My heart and my best intentions still tell me that is true, but the facts and the evidence tell me it is not," Reagan said.     "There are reasons why it happened, but no excuses. It was a mistake," he said.     Reagan again said that the original Iran initiative was to develop relations with those who might assume leadership in a post-Khomeini government.     "It's clear from the Board's report however that I let my personal concern for the hostages spill over into the geo-political strategy of reaching out to Iran.     "I asked so many questions about the hostages' welfare that I didn't ask enough about the specifics of the total Iran plan," he said.     The commission, headed by former Republican Sen. John Tower, said Reagan's "intense compassion" for Americans being held by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon had resulted in an unprofessional and unsatisfactory policy.     It portrayed 76-year old Reagan as a man who did not know or care much about the wide-ranging, probably illegal activities of his National Security Council (NSC) staff, which hatched the operation.     Reagan said he endorsed all of the Tower commission's recommendations about the running of the NSC, adding, "In fact, I'm going beyond its recommendations, so as to put the house in even better order."     He noted that he had appointed former Senate Republican leader Howard Baker as his new chief of staff and said he hoped Baker would help him forge a new partnership with Congress, "especially on foreign and national security policies."     He said his new national security adviser, Frank Carlucci, was rebuilding the national security staff "with proper management discipline."     Reagan said that almost half the NSC professional staff now consisted of new people.     He said that FBI Director William Webster, his new nominee to head the CIA, "understands the meaning of 'rule of law'".     Reagan also announced that Tower had agreed to serve as a member of his Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, which acts as a watchdog on the nation's covert activities.     But he said that he had issued a directive barring the NSC staff itself from undertaking covert operations -- "No ifs, ands, or buts."     Tonight's speech was a far cry from Reagan's initial strong defense of his Iran policy.     In a televised speech last November 13, Reagan called charges that he ransomed hostages and undercut the U.S. war on terrorism "utterly false."     As recently as two months ago in his State of the Union speech, Reagan said that "serious mistakes were made" but defended the basic policy as one that had worthy goals.     By contrast, tonight's speech had an apologetic tone that was a marked departure from Reagan's usual upbeat, confident demeanor.     He said he took full responsibility for his own actions "and for those of my administration."     "As angry as I may be about activities undertaken without my knowledge, I am still accountable for those activities. As disappointed as I may be in some who served me, I am still the one who must answer to the American people for this behavior," Reagan said.     Reagan said the message that the nation should move on had come from Republicans and Democrats in Congress, from allies around the world -- "and if we're reading the signals right, even from the Soviets."     His remark seemed to be a reference to a new Soviet willingness to reach an agreement on eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe.  Reuter &#3;

