25-MAR-1987 03:35:25.78

EC MINISTERS FAIL TO END DEADLOCK ON RESEARCH PLAN

The European Community (EC) has failed to agree on a high-technology research program because of opposition from Britain and West Germany, diplomats said.     But Belgian Research Minister Guy Verhofstadt told reporters the two had been given just over a week to end their opposition or risk plunging EC research into a crisis.     The so-called "Framework Program" proposed by the EC's Executive Commission was designed to boost research in areas such as computers, biotechnology and telecommunications and combat U.S. And Japanese domination in these fields.     The five-year program was due to start at the beginning of this year, but was delayed by calls from Britain, France and West Germany for cuts in the proposed budget of 7.7 billion European Currency Units (Ecus), diplomats said.     The EC Commission had already cut the budget from 10.5 billion Ecus, but under EC law the program needs the approval of all member states before it can be launched.     France has withdrawn its objections and backed a new compromise budget proposed by Verhofstadt to trim spending.     But Britain is continuing its demands for further, sharp cuts in the budget.     West Germany, which yesterday appeared to be ready to accept the compromise, was also holding back.     Verhofstadt, who chaired the lengthy meeting, said he had given the two states until April 3 to withdraw their opposition.     But if one or both failed to do so, the EC would be left without a research program, leaving no money for schemes such as the EC's Esprit information technology drive.     "If that happened ... There would be a grave crisis in Europe's scientific and research policy," Verhofstadt said, adding it could mean research teams being disbanded.     Diplomats said West Germany was close to agreeing to the compromise, which would limit new spending to 5.4 billion Ecus by allowing for cash already set aside for future projects.     The plan would also set aside at least 16 pct of the 5.4 billion Ecus for spending after the end of the five-year program, they said. But Britain still maintained the allocations were much too high.     Britain's Research Minister Geoffrey Pattie faced a tough fight to convince his government colleagues they should accept an increase in spending beyond the 4.2 billion Ecu level so far demanded by Britain, one diplomat added.  REUTER &#3;

