16-MAR-1987 08:51:21.40

TECHNOLOGY/DESKTOP PUBLISHING

This month's endorsement by International Business Machines Corp <IBM> of two desktop publishing software products should add some much-needed standards to one of the fastest growing segments of the computer industry, analysts say.     Desktop publishing is a relatively new market but industry analysts estimate that sales will reach one billion dlrs this year and jump to six billion dlrs by 1990, fueled by the rush of corporations to bring their printing and publishing needs in-house rather than to more expensive outside printers.     Printing is a big expense for most companies. Analysts estimate U.S. corporations will spend about six to 20 pct of their total operating budgets on publishing expenses this year.     At a desktop publishing conference in Chicago earlier this month, IBM said it will adopt Adobe Systems Inc's Postscript typesetting language in future electronic printing products. IBM also said it will support Microsoft Corp's Windows operating environment as the graphics interface standard in future publishing announcements rather than its own Topview environment.     "IBM's announcement will give tremendous stimulation to the development of the desktop publishing market," said David Goodstein, president of the consulting firm Interconsult Inc.     "It gives users permission to go ahead and buy products that are already available without being afraid that they will not be compatible with whatever IBM does," he said.     The advent of personal computers, laser printers and graphics software has allowed users to design and print brochures, newsletters and a host of other communications at their desks for a fraction of the cost of an outside printing firm. Analysts credit Apple Computer with creating desktop publishing when it introduced its Macintosh personal computer four years ago, with its easy-to-use formats and excellent graphics capabilities.      Since then Digital Equipment Corp, Xerox Corp, Apollo Computer Inc and a number of other vendors have identified desktop publishing as a major growth area. IBM entered the market only last July when it formed its Publishing Systems Business Unit. IBM's embrace of the already-widely used Postscript, a language that interprets computer commands and translates them into instructions for the printer, was an acknowledgment of what is already a de facto standard.     Both users and makers of electronic publishing systems said the support of the world's largest computer maker was critical to the language's ultimate acceptance by users.     John Warnock, president of Palo Alto, Calif.-based Adobe, said, "Ten pct of corporations have (moved) into desktop publishing but 90 pct are still sitting back and waiting for an IBM announcement."     IBM entered a licensing pact with Adobe for Postscript, but its support of Windows was not quite so broad. IBM recognizes Windows as a standard but would not comment on the extent of its commitment to the software.     Windows, a program integrator, allows personal computer users to run a number of different applications simultaneously.  Reuter &#3;

