 2-MAR-1987 13:37:22.97

ZIMBABWE'S MAIZE MOUNTAIN POSES ECONOMIC PROBLEM

More than two mln tonnes of surplus maize dotted across Zimbabwe in huge piles is posing an economic headache for the country.     The grain, Southern Africa's staple, has been bought by the Grain Marketing Board (GMB) at prices guaranteed before it was planted, and is costing the GMB about 27 mln dlrs a month in storage and interest payments to make the purchases.     Accumulated over the past two years of bumper harvests, the surplus represents about two years of domestic consumption and is set to grow as further deliveries are due shortly.     Some deals have been made with aid donors, such as European countries and Australia, to provide Zimbabwe with wheat in return for maize sent to neighbouring Mozambique, where the United Nations has urged greater world efforts to feed the hungry.     But transport constraints keep those figures low and the only significant dent was a sale of 250,000 tonnes to South Africa last year.     Because of the costs it has incurred, the GMB cannot afford to give the maize away and the standard 90 kg bags have been accumulating, economists here said.     But failure to find buyers on glutted world grain markets is damaging Zimbabwe, as it needs foreign exchange to finance imports for other areas of the economy, the economists added.     "At present, it is a no-win situation. Let us hope some of the extra aid (UN) Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar called for at the weekend will be spent here," a Western aid specialist said.     "At least this year's poor rains haven't exacerbated the situation too badly," he added. Rainfall during the current rainy season has been far below average, ravaging all but the irrigated lands of large commercial farmers.     While this may curb the amount of maize delivered this year to the GMB, the government also acted late last year to slash maize production and force diversification.     Calling for a switch to other crops such as oilseeds, Agriculture Minister Moven Mahachi said an economically-viable price of 180 dlrs a tonne would be paid this year for only half the amount of maize bought by the GMB in 1986, and above that growers would be paid an unprofitable 100 dlrs.     The poor rains have also adversely affected other crops, such as sorghum, soybeans, groundnuts, tobacco and cotton, the Agriculture Ministry reported at the end of February.  Reuter &#3;

