29-JUN-1987 09:06:40.00

TECHNOLOGY/ALTERNATIVES TO IBM SOFTWARE STANDARD

In the fast paced personal computer industry, millions can be made in six months, and such an opportunity may exist now for companies seeking to capitalize on the delay of a new IBM software standard.     When International Business Machines Corp <IBM> announced its new generation of personal computers, the PS/2 family, in April, it also decided to establish a new operating system for the machines, a death sentence for the billions of dollars of software now in use on the existing system.     Because IBM is the world's largest computer company - some 70 pct of the world's computers bear the IBM logo - most industry analysts, and even IBM's competitors, expect that within two years the new operating system, called OS/2, will be as commonplace as the current standard, MS-DOS, is now.     "By 1989, at least one half to 60 pct of all personal computers will be sold with OS/2," predicted George Colony, president of the consulting firm Forrester Research Inc.     But until then there is an opportunity, some analysts said, for firms selling advanced versions of MS-DOS, specialised multi-tasking software packages and Unix, an alternative to MS-DOS developed by American Telephone and Telegraph Co <T> that has developed a following among engineers and the federal government.     OS-2, which IBM is developing with Microsoft Corp, the author of MS-DOS, will not be ready for another six months. IBM said last week that the product is on schedule but analysts and other software developers are skeptical, since delays in major new software products are commonplace.     Initial acceptance of the new system will most likely be hindered by the disgruntlement of hardware and software vendors alike, who would prefer to keep making products that work with tried and true MS-DOS, according to Paul Cubbage, software analyst with the market research firm Dataquest Inc.     Compaq, IBM's major personal computer competitor, has already said it will stick with the MS-DOS standard. Compaq president Rod Canion said recently their will be no "automatic mass migration" to OS/2. "(Advanced MS-DOS) applications will continue to meet a far broader set of users needs than OS/2 will supply long after it becomes available," he said.     Cubbage acknowledged that "it will probably be a year or more before any really useful applications are available for OS-2," creating opportunities for multi-tasking programs. "But there comes a time when the memory limits of those gets to you," he said.     IBM's new operating system was as big an event to the computer industry as the PS-2 announcement itself. The new computers, the most powerful of which will use Intel Corp's fast 80386 microprocessor, are expected to rejuvenate the sagging sales of the personal computer industry and already gave a big boost to IBM.     Company officials said last week that 250,000 PS/2s were shipped in the 2-1/2 months since their introduction and IBM expect record pc sales ths year as a result.     The enthusiasm for the PS-2 is particularly striking since the full potential of the powerful computers cannot be tapped until a new operating system or other high level software is available, analysts said.     OS-2 will allow users to work on many different programs, or tasks, at once on a personal computer, ideally without any slowdown in operation, a capability the industry has long strived for.     Microsoft is already promising alternatives to OS-2, in particular an advanced version of its Windows multitasking program, which is used in conjunction with MS-DOS.     Microsoft chairman Bill Gates has suggested an advanced version of the program, Windows 386, will be announced in September and available six to eight weeks later, at a price of 100 dlrs and 300 dlrs. OS/2 is expected to cost 325 dlrs.      Some software developers have said the the program, designed for 80386-based personal computers, may even be superior to OS/2 in allowing users to multitask applications without disruption.      But several analysts commented that what users really want is a multi-taksing operating system for 80386-based personal computers, and so far that desire has been met primarily by a small Atlanta software publisher, The Software Link Inc. In late spring the company announced PC-MOS/386, a multi-tasking, multiuser operating system that is compatible with MS/DOS and works on 80386-based computers.     The company said it filled 2,500 orders in the first four weeks of availability and expects shipments to reach 40,000 by year end.     International Data Corp analyst Will Zachmann said Unix could be the most promising alternative to OS/2, even once the IVM system is available.     IBM did not endorse Unix for any of its PS/2 models, although it did say that it would announce a version of its Advanced Interactive Executive (AIX), a Unix compatible operating system.     But the federal government requires Unix compatability for most of its computer contracts, it is almost certain that other companies will provide Unix-style operating systems for the IBM systems.     ATT itself two weeks ago introduced a version of Unix that is compatible with the 80386 microprocessor, although not IBM's computer specifically.     Analysts saw the announcement as a move to get Unix accepted as a strong alternative to OS/2 before the IBM system has a chance to take off.  Reuter &#3;

