31-MAR-1987 14:56:45.24

ROYAL DUTCH <RD> OBJECT OF SHAREHOLDER CAMPAIGN

Sponsors of a campaign to pressure Royal Dutch Petroleum Co to suspend operations in South Africa claimed the backing of church groups and other institutions who collectively own 4.8 mln of the the company's approximately 268.0 mln shares.     "We're seeking to have the company disinvest in South Africa - that means get out," Harrison Goldin, comptroller of New York City told a news conference.     The immediate goal of the campaign is to enlist the support of owners of 27 mln shares to force an unprecedented special meeting of shareholders, Goldin said.     Goldin appeared at the news conference with Gordon Smith, treasurer of the ministers and missionaries benefit board of the American Baptist Churches.     The 4.8 mln shares represented by the group includes four retirement funds covering various groups of New York City workers, the California State Teachers Retirement System and seven church-related groups.     Goldin said the ultimate aim of the group is to "tighten the noose of economic pressure on South Africa" until the government changes its apartheid policies.     A reprsentative of Shell Oil Co, the U.S. arm of Royal Dutch, distributed a statement after the news conference explaining that the company supports a program of power sharing by all South Africans.     The statement said senior officials of the company have stated publicly that they regard apartheid as "a system wholly at variance with the principles on which our group of companies has operated all over the world for many years."     Goldin said the group seeks a special meeting because the company has rejected efforts to have South African issues placed on a ballot for the annual meeting in May.     Goldin said the shareholders have no particular timetable for the special meeting. "We are dealing with an effort to arouse public opinion," he said, asserting that it is not necessary to have a majority of the votes. "Large companies respond when they see which way the wind is blowing."     An immediate goal is to get Shell to stop selling fuel to South Afria's military and police, he said.     Smith said the campaign against Shell breaks new ground in the cooperation of institutional investors on social issues. An official of the United Mine Workers outlined a previously announced boycott of Royal Dutch/Shell products.  Reuter &#3;

