 1-JUN-1987 18:28:03.70

BOEING <BA> RESHAPING DE HAVILLAND IN OWN IMAGE

Boeing Co is attempting to recreate money-losing de Havilland Aircraft of Canada Ltd in its own image.     But it is a process that will be complex and, because the company was in worse shape than expected, time-consuming, according to de Havilland president Ron Woodard.     Yet Woodard, a former Boeing executive, believes the makeover is absolutely essential to revitalize the historic company Boeing bought from the Canadian government a year ago.     "These are very complex, deep problems that you don't change overnight," Woodard told Reuters in an interview as he outlined his vision of transforming de Havilland into a diversified manufacturer and an important cog in Boeing's worldwide operations.     "We've got to get our house in order. We've got to get lots of Boeing (sub-contract) work in here and we've got to get Boeing's systems in here and just get to be part of the worldwide support system."     But based on de Havilland's turbulent flight path in recent years, the task will also not be easy.     Formed in 1928 as an offshoot of the British operation started by Geoffrey de Havilland, the company has turned out a variety of small aircraft. During World War II it produced the unique wooden Mosquito bomber for the Allied Command.     In the postwar years that de Havilland became renowned internationally for its rugged bush planes.     Canada's Liberal government, interested in developing de Havilland's STOL (Short Take Off and Landing) technology, acquired the firm in 1974 and poured 830 mln Canadian dlrs into it over a dozen years, helping to develop the 50-seat Dash 7 and 39-seat Dash 8 commuter aircraft.     Amid accusations of a sellout, the pro-business Conservative government sold the company to Boeing in 1986 for 90 mln Canadian dlrs, or less than the price of one of Boeing's 747s.     Woodard believes de Havilland, which has not made a profit since 1982, suffered from neglect under government control. It was also in worse condition than anticipated, and the company has approached Ottawa for compensation for what it believes were unexpected shortcomings at the plant.     "We found to our shock, to our surprise, last August we had very serious health and safety regulation violations," said Woodard.     Although he would not divulge how much is being sought, Woodard said it would be in excess of the 10 mln Canadian dlrs already spent on replacing the plant's outmoded ventilation system.     Yet Woodard is optimistic that once Boeing's manufacturing systems are in place, the company can begin delivering planes on time and at a profit -- possibly within a year and a half.     "We've got a great product and if we can get everyone heading the same way we're just going to eat the rest of the world," Woodard predicted.     Company officials said production of the 6-mln-U.S.-dlr  Dash 8 has been doubled to four a month and they hope to reach six a month by year end.     Some 63 Dash 8s are on order and there are options for the purchase of another 27. For the brand new "stretch" or extended version of the plane, 23 have been ordered and 11 are under option.     Woodard said that while de Havilland has a commanding grip on the North American commuter market, which has been booming under airline deregulation, the company has only a 30 pct market share worldwide.     "I'd like to see us make some overseas penetrations. There are a lot of places now where people are starting to deregulate. I think the next big, big growth area is probably Europe," he said.     De Havilland now has 5,500 employees, up from 4,300 when Boeing bought the company. All manufacturing is located at its Downsview Airport site in Toronto.  Reuter &#3;

