19-JUN-1987 12:12:43.39

LLOYDS PULLS OUT OF EUROBOND/GILT MARKET MAKING

Lloyds Bank Plc said it is withdrawing from market making in Eurobonds and U.K. Government bonds (gilts).     It said in a statement it will maintain an active presence in short-term securities trading, swaps and other treasury products, building on its strengths in traditional foreign exchange and money markets.     In the statement, Lloyds chief executive Brian Pitman said "We have a relatively small position in these two overcrowded markets and we have decided to reallocate the resources to opportunities which promise a better return on our shareholders' investment."     With this decision, Lloyds becomes the second major U.K. Clearing bank to feel the effects of the deregulation of the London Stock Exchange, or "Big Bang," last October. Earlier this year, Midland Bank Plc pulled out of equity market making because it did not believe the return justified the costs involved in maintaining and developing a market share.     Lloyds Treasurer Alan Moore subsequently told Reuters that the decision was taken at a board meeting earlier today and had been under discussion for some time.     He said the move was not a reaction to any losses sustained in the trading of Eurobonds or gilts but rather a result of a "strategic review" of the future of Lloyds involvement in these markets. In the end, Lloyds decided these markets did not represent "an attractive return to our shareholders," he said.     He noted that Lloyds had not expected its U.K. Government bond operations would be profitable in the early stages, although he declined to discuss the finances of the operation.     "This is an overcrowed market," Moore said of the U.K. Government bond market, which began Big Bang with 27 market makers. Lloyds withdrawal now leaves the number at 26.     Market participants noted that Lloyds was the only one of the clearing banks which did not buy a jobber (middle man) or broker before Big Bang.     Under the old system, the gilt market operated under a separate system which involved separate functions for jobbers and brokers. Now these tasks have been taken up by market makers acting as both.     Moore said that one reason Lloyds decided to withdraw from these markets was that they could no longer justify the commitment of capital that was required to maintain these operations.     He said Lloyds would make every effort to redeploy employees in these areas within the bank.  REUTER &#3;

