20-MAR-1987 15:11:03.68

AMERICAN EXPRESS <AXP> AND UNIT GET SUBPOENAS

American Express Co said it was subpoenaed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with documents on transactions in securities of American Express and its former unit, Fireman's Fund.     American Express said its brokerage unit, Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc was also served with a subpoena. Shearson acted as co-manager in the underwriting of units of Fireman's common stock and warrants last May, was also served with a subpoena, it said.     American Express said the subpoena to Shearson relates to transactions with Jefferies and Co and others.     American Express said it and Shearson intend to comply with all requests from the SEC and to cooperate fully. American Express said neither company is aware of any unlawful conduct with respect to the matters and a thorough investigation is continuing.     American Express said the subpoenas were received yesterday, and that it and Shearson were unaware of any inquiry prior to receiving the subpoenas.     Yesterday, Boyd Jefferies, founder of Jefferies Group, said he agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of securities violations.     Jefferies also settled charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission of market manipulation and another scheme with Ivan Boesky, who has settled SEC charges of insider trading.     Jefferies' firm was censured by the SEC and ordered to retain an outside consultant to review its procedures.     In documents filed on Jefferies yesterday, the SEC did not identify who was involved in the market manipulation scheme aside from Jefferies. It said "a certain issuer," which held controlling interest in a second public company, offered several mln shares of the company's common stock to the public in a secondary offering during 1986.     The SEC alleged that Boyd Jefferies carried out a scheme with an unidentified person to drive up the price of the second company's stock prior to the offering by having the Jefferies firm trade in the stock.     Jefferies and co was allegedly compensated for the loss from those trading activities after sending a fake invoice to another unnamed person, the government charged.     American Express first offered Fireman's Fund Corp's stock to the public in 1985. It lowered its holding from 100 pct to 41 pct. In May, 1986, it reduced its ownership interest to 27 pct by completing a public offering of nine mln units.     Each unit consisted of one share of common and one warrant to buy Fireman's fund. The warrants are exercisable from the issue date through March, 1989.     At the same time, American Express sold warrants directly to Fireman's Fund to purchase five mln shares. Those warrants are exercisable between November, 1988 and March 1991.     American Express said if all warrants were exercised it would own about 13 pct of Fireman's fund.     American Express stock fell 1-1/2, to 77-1/4 on volume of 1.9 mln shares. The stock had been strong in the last two days, first on rumors, then an announcement of an understanding American Express reached to sell Nippon Life Insurance Co 13 pct of Shearson.     Wall Street has also been anticipating American Express will sell a stake in the brokerage unit to the public as well.     E.F. Hutton analyst Michael Lewis said he does not believe the subpoenas will affect Nippon's deal with American Express, but it could result in a delay of the public offering anticipated for Shearson.      "If they're forced to keep a bigger percentage of Shearson a little longer...big deal. They're certainly not going to throw Shearson away. Shearson is still an attractive asset," he said.     American Express has not commented on speculation it would offer part of Shearson to the public, but it has said it was continuing to review options for the brokerage.     Analysts had speculated an offering of a part of Shearson would be forthcoming shortly.     "It puts a cloud over it for a while...The market is anxious to see them consumate whatever they were going to consumate," Lewis said.  Reuter &#3;

