26-MAR-1987 18:19:35.73

PIK CERTIFICATES IN EYE OF U.S. BUDGET STORM

Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) said Congress would consider limiting the use of generic commodity certificates as a means of cutting government spending.      "I suspect that as we go into some of the budget debates we're going to have on the floor, this is going to be part of it," Leahy said, referring to proposals that the U.S. Agriculture Department save money by substituting cash outlays for payment-in-kind, or PIK, certificates in price and income support programs.      "I have a feeling that the PIK program, however the cost is defined, is going to be one of the top number of areas that people are going to be looking for savings," Leahy told a hearing of the Senate Agriculture Committee.      The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the government could save 1.4 billion dlrs during fiscal years 1988-92 if it curbed the use of generic certificates by banning so-called "PIK and roll" transactions.      Several Democratic senators had harsh comments for generic certificates.      "We're trying to take care of a bad situation -- surpluses--by depressing the price. I don't see any benefits," said Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa). "I don't see any benefit in driving their prices lower, lower, lower all the time."      But Sen. Rudy Boschwitz said he supported use of certificates. "By and large I'm favorably impressed by PIK certificates. I feel they have been helpful," said Boschwitz.      As expected, officials from the General Accounting Office and the U.S. Agriculture Department indicated their estimates of the cost of PIK certificates compared to cash outlays were far apart.      The General Accounting Office, GAO, told the committee that PIK certificates increased total Commodity Credit Corp outlays through 1987 by between 107 mln and 653 mln dlrs. GAO said that increase was offset by commodity storage cost savings of beween 169 mln and 253 mln dlrs.      Pressed by the committee, GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley said government spending probably was about 450 mln dlrs above what it would have been had all program payments been made in cash, not counting storage savings.      Crowley also said he thought PIK certificates had lowered the price of corn and boosted domestic consumption of corn.      Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz told the committee that the additional costs of using PIK certificates and storage, handling and transportation costs "balance off very closely."      Amstutz said he estimated the net cost of using certificates was about one pct higher than using only cash to make program payments.      William Bailey, USDA deputy administrator for program planning, said there were "one hundred issues I find either incorrect (in the GAO report), disagree with or where their (GAO) facts are inconsistent with what's going on."      Amstutz said GAO had not given USDA the option of "providing input" into the preparation of their report "as they frequently do."      The USDA undersecretary also conceded that certificates and marketing loans had the similar effect of "putting more goods into the market," but that while the department supported certificates, it would continue to oppose a marketing loan for wheat and feedgrains because it would cost too much.  Reuter &#3;

