19-OCT-1987 20:19:06.71

TOKYO BROKERS SEE SHARP EARLY STOCK PRICE FALL

Stock market analysts polled before Tokyo's market opened on Tuesday said Wall Street's dramatic fall on Monday was overdone and although Tokyo would fall drastically at the opening it might stabilise later.     Factors affecting the Tokyo market are not the same as those in New York, they said.     "Tokyo's market is completely different from New York," said a senior analyst at Nomura Securities. "We have no computer (program) selling, and much more stable share ownership than in New York."     "The discount rate in Japan cannot rise," the senior Nomura analyst said.     He said the Tokyo Exchange's 225-share index may fall 1,000 points on Tuesday, because of basic concern. It dropped 620.18 points to 25,746.56 on Monday.     But he said a 1,000 point fall would be nothing compared to New York. "New York overreacted, the dollar is rising -- that should be a positive sign for New York," he said.     The Tokyo Stock Exchange opens from 0900 local time (0000 GMT) to 1500 local (0600 GMT).     The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 508 points (or 22.5 pct) to 1,738 on Monday, its biggest ever one day decline in both absolute and percentage terms.     Simon Smithson, a Kleinwort Benson International share analyst, said Tokyo's market was likely to free fall in morning trading but perhaps would stabilise later. He too predicted a drop of perhaps 1,000 points in the index today.     But he said overall economic conditions in the U.S. And Japan were different. "The problems that pushed down the New York market, like the (U.S.) budget deficit, trade deficit and slow economic growth, do not exist in Japan," Smithson said.     However, a stocks fund manager at a major trust bank made a more gloomy prediction. "The situation is different in the two markets, but you cannot ignore New York," he said.     "Foreigners will be selling and the index funds will be selling," he said.     A fund manager at another Japanese trust bank said Monday's New York fall was completely out of the range of expectations.     "All we can do is wait now and see what happens. There seem to be no factors which would stop the fall. There is no way we can invest now," he said.  REUTER &#3;

