 9-APR-1987 01:57:22.15

MEMBERS OF JAPAN'S RULING PARTY SHUN NAKASONE

Members of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have shunned his support in their campaigns for upcoming local elections.     "His presence will do more harm than good," an LDP candidate in Tokyo told Reuters. The candidate is one of several conservatives who have rebelled and joined the public outcry against Nakasone's proposal for a five pct sales tax.     Political analysts said Nakasone might have to step down before the Venice summit of industrial democracies on June 8-10 if the LDP lost too many major local seats.     Nakasone's popularity has dropped sharply since he led his party to its greatest-ever election victory last July, and analysts said the proposed tax was one reason for the decline.     Over 2,500 local seats will be filled during two rounds of polling. The first round is on Sunday, the second on April 26.     Political analysts said a seat to watch would be the governorship of Fukuoka, southern Japan. The LDP and two centre parties are challenging the incumbent governor, Hachiji Okuda, who is supported by the opposition socialist and communist parties.     The proposed tax is a key campaign issue.     "The LDP and the centrist parties should have about 1,350,000 votes against 700,000 for Okuda. But Okuda is the incumbent and has the sales tax weapon," said Rei Shiratori, professor of political science at Dokkyo University.     "Nakasone will serve out his term to the end of October if the LDP wins in Fukuoka," he said.     Analysts believe the opposition is likely to win the governorship of the northern island of Hokkaido.     But Kenzo Uchida, professor of political science at Hosei University, said, "Nakasone can afford to get fairly tough if the LDP loses only in Hokkaido."     The opposition parties are campaigning to scrap the sales tax proposal.     The tax is one of the main pillars of Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system, which has remained unchanged for 36 years.     It is also a key element in plans to boost Japanese domestic demand and cut back on exports. Without the tax revenue the government would have less to spend on stimulating the economy.  REUTER &#3;

