 26-MAR-1987 23:52:19.47

NEC CORP TARGETS HOME ELECTRONICS BUSINESS

The president of Japan's biggest high technology firm, NEC Corp <NIPN.T>, is anything but worried, despite growing anti-Japanese protectionism, a soaring yen, and a stagnant world electronics market.     "The company's structure was developed by looking ahead," Tadahiro Sekimoto told Reuters in an interview.     "We assumed the era of a strong yen, trade friction and globalisation would arrive, and we moved ahead on that basis. There's no need to change our strategy now."     However, the world's largest manufacturer of microchips, the tiny silicon wafers which are the brains of most high technology products, knows it must keep looking ahead if it is to survive.     Hoping to build on existing strengths, NEC is now turning its focus on home electronics, an area of past weakness, Sekimoto said.     NEC wants to follow its corporate slogan "C and C" (Computers and Communications) to create high level home electronics that go beyond mere televisions and video tape recorders, Sekimoto said.     Home electronics accounted for only eight pct of NEC's total 2,334.67 billion yen sales on a consolidated basis in the year ended March 31, 1986.     Industry analysts say NEC is wise to target what will be a major growth market in the future, but some warn the company faces some stiff competition.     "This is where the market is going to be for a long time -- in products that combine personal computers, video display and telecommunications networks," said Salomon Brothers (Asia) Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec. "But Matsushita (Electric Industrial Co Ltd) may be there first."     But Sekimoto argues that NEC's overall strengths will carry the day.     "Many companies are in the top 10 in computers or microchips or telecommunications, but none is in the top 10 in all three. NEC is unique in that respect," he said.     To help its already high rankings, NEC will further increase the high level of offshore production which makes it one of the most multinational of Japan's electronics firms.     The company will increase offshore output of all goods it sells overseas to 50 pct from a current 25 pct over the next several years, Sekimoto said.     But the firm plans to go it alone in expanding overseas, despite moving last year to become joint owner, along with France's Cie des Machines Bull <BULP.P>, of U.S. Firm Honeywell Inc's <HON> Information Systems unit.     "We hope to increase our share in the U.S. Market through the Honeywell tie-up. But our basic strategy is to take an independent and autonomous route," said Sekimoto.     The company also plans to maintain its independent line by continuing to make computers which are not compatible with those of International Business Machines Corp <IBM>, he said.     "Among the Japanese competitors, only NEC hasn't been caught in software copyright disputes with IBM and our profits and market share have gradually expanded," Sekimoto said.     Once new ways of linking non-compatible computers are perfected, IBM compatibility will be irrelevant. "What will matter is the best hardware, the best software and the best ability to meet customers needs," Sekimoto said.     In fact, NEC, which has over half of Japan's personal computer market, may go to court to stop competitors selling cheaper machines which can run NEC software but infringe copyright on its operating system, an NEC spokesman said.     While industry analysts give NEC high marks for looking ahead, they note that it failed in forecasting microchip demand. Like other Japanese chipmakers, the firm was left with serious excess capacity when lean years followed the boom times.     But after two years of cutbacks in capital investment in the sector, Sekimoto thinks the time has come to boost spending again, if only slightly.     "We're not going to increase production. But we are going to invest in new product development and upgrade existing plant," he said.     Despite NEC's admitted strengths, analysts note the company faces tough times due to stagnant markets.     "NEC has excellent worldwide capacity and technology, but they are caught in a downturn which may last a long time," said Salamon's Ryavec.     The company forecasts such troubles will slash parent net profits to 30 billion yen in the year ending March 31, 1987, down 43 pct from the previous year, although sales are expected to rise eight pct to 2,130 billion yen.     Profits will improve only slightly next year, rising to 38 billion yen on sales of 2,350 billion, it said.  REUTER &#3;

