13-MAR-1987 14:54:43.34

FAIRCHILD INDUSTRIES <FEN> CLOSES PLANT

Fairchild Industries Inc said it will close the Fairchild Republic plant at Farmingdale this year, and sell it next year, after agreeing with the U.S. Air Force to terminate the T-46A trainer aircraft program.     John Sanford, the Fairchild Republic unit's president and vice president of the corporation, said Reublic will fulfill its remaining current obligations, but will cease work on the T-46A immediately.     Fairchild said the unit has already delivered two protoype and one production T-46A.     Sanford said lack of additional Air Force funding for the trainer due to budget constraints prompted the termination agreement.     Sanford added that without the T-46A or business to replace the work, Fairchild was forced to close the plant.     Fairchild said it expects to retain about 200 engineers and technicians at a small operation to be set up in 1987 on Long Island to continue providing technical support for the Air Force's A-10 aircraft.     Fairchild added that its Fairchild Composites/Bonding Center, formerly a part of the Fairchild Republic operation, will become an independent operation.     Paul Wright, Fairchild president and chief operating officer, said, "With the settlement of the T-46A issue we have put behind us the last of two problem aircraft programs that caused the company heavy losses over the past two years."     Wright added that the company can now move forward with its restructuring to emphasize on growth areas in aerospace, communications, electronics and its commercial and industrial businesses.     Earlier, Fairchild reported losses from continuing operations in 1986's 4th qtr of 3.2 mln dlrs, or 44 cts a share.     This compares with a operating profit of two mln dlrs, or a loss of eight cts a share, after subtracting the provisions for preferred shares, in 1985's fourth quarter.     Fairchild reported 1986 operating net of 7.6 mln dlrs, or a loss of 34 cts a share, after provisions for preferred shares, versus a loss of 283,000 dlrs, or 93 cts a share, in 1985.  Reuter &#3;

