 9-APR-1987 04:20:25.68

CHINA LIKELY TO JOIN GATT, DIPLOMATS SAY

China is likely to succeed in joining GATT despite policies that contradict free trade, because western countries support its entry, western diplomats said.     China applied to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in July 1986. The organisation, formed in 1948 to integrate the world's free market economies, now regulates 80 pct of world trade.     The GATT secretariat is expected to submit a list of detailed questions to China next month at the start of long and complex entry negotiations, the diplomats said.     One diplomat said China's prospects are good, with its application supported by the United States, Japan and the European Community for political and economic reasons.     "The fear is that if China was refused entry, it would draw back the bamboo curtain and go back to the way it was," he said.     Another said the Soviet Union was waiting in the wings.     "If GATT accepted China, it would be hard not to accept the Soviet Union," he said.     "China's agreement will be seen as a model for the Soviet Union. GATT is not a political body."     But serious problems have to be tackled during the talks, including China's pricing system and trade subsidies.     GATT is based on free trade and aims to lower tariffs and promote trade, with prices alone dictating who buys what.     One diplomat said it was very hard in China to establish the real cost of goods because many prices are set by the state and often contain subsidies.     "Even when you go in person to a factory or a company to try to find out the real cost of something, officials do not give you a clear answer. The political meaning is evident. They do not want to answer," he said.     China's position, as set out in a memorandum to GATT in February, is that it is gradually reforming its price system to bring prices in line with real production costs and replace administrative controls with market ones.     Another diplomat said countries with centralised economies such as Hungary and Yugoslavia had joined GATT. However, China would not apply for membership on similar terms, but rather as a less developed country entitled to preferential treatment.     He added that the economies of Hungary and Yugoslavia are small, while China's is huge and its weight would be felt.     "It (China) is the world's number two producer of coal, for instance," the diplomat said. "It could have a very large impact on world trade."     Another sticking point is the subsidies China pays its companies to export so it can earn foreign exchange to pay for vitally needed technology, equipment and raw materials.     A Japanese trader said China lost money on every tonne of grain it exported, because it had to make up the difference between a low world price and a high domestic price.     A western diplomat said an official of a foreign trade bureau of a major inland Chinese city told him export subsidies might be as high as 100 pct for some products.     "When I asked what the subsidy figure was for the whole country, he referred me to the Ministry of Finance, adding with a grin that they would not tell me," he said.     He said officials were unwilling to give figures because of the sensitivity of the subject.     "Unless something is done to change this, China will find many countries in GATT putting restrictions on imports from China," the diplomat added.     In a major speech on the economy late last month, Planning Minister Song Ping made an indirect reference to this problem.     "While trying to expand exports to earn more foreign exchange, we must improve economic accounting practices and reduce the cost of exports," he said.     One diplomat said China's freedom to change its foreign trade and pricing system to bring them more in line with GATT principles could conflict with domestic pressures. China has said there will be no major price reforms this year following widespread discontent in 1985 and 1986 from a public used to stable prices since the Communist takeover in 1949.     "So the question is how fast and how thoroughly can China reform its economy?," the diplomat said. "How can it balance the requirements of GATT membership with domestic political needs?"     But he added the advantages of China's entry would in the end outweigh these problems.     "China's entry would force it to modernise and become more a part of the world economy," he said.     "Just as China would get increased access to foreign markets, so it would have to give more access to its domestic market to foreign countries."  REUTER &#3;

