 5-MAR-1987 17:46:11.82

INTEREST IN OPTIONS STIRRED BY U.S. FARM PLANS

In their search for ways to cut spending on U.S. farm programs, policymakers and their advisers here are citing trading in options contracts as an alternative to federal income and price supports.     Critics of costly federal farm programs maintain that the government could get out of guaranteeing minimum support prices if farmers systematically used options contracts to protect themselves against vacillating market prices.     "With agricultural options now available, there is less need for government price support programs to provide price stability for farmers," the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, said in a recent position paper.     "Washington no longer needs to restrict the level and variability of commodity market prices. Farmers and others in agribusiness can now achieve the benefits of price stability by trading in option markets," the paper, written by Clemson University professor Kandice Kahl, said.     Critics of farm programs contend that options offer the benefits of price support programs without entailing the cost to taxpayers.     Kahl's paper urged farmers to buy "put" options in order to obtain the right to sell at a particular price to the private seller of the option contract.     "This gives the farmer a guaranteed price, but still allows him to profit from higher market prices, if they are available, by foregoing his option," Kahl said.     Interest in promoting understanding of options trading among farmers also has been stirred in Congress by a proposed change in agricultural policy that would have the effect of exposing participants in federal farm programs to fluctuations in income subsidies.     The proposal -- supported by the Reagan administration and a cross-section of lawmakers -- would allow farmers to receive at least 92 pct of their income subsidies regardless of how much they planted.     Under current law, farmers enrolled in federal price stabilization programs receive income subsidies, or deficiency payments, equal to the difference between a set target price and the higher of the support price or market price.     The so-called decoupling plan, or "0/92", would aim to curtail surplus production by eliminating the requirement that farmers plant in order to receive deficiency payments.     Critics of "0/92" plan contend that if the scheme succeeded in curbing surplus output, market prices would rise and deficiency payments fall -- leaving farmers who chose not to plant with shrunken income subsidies and no crops to sell.     Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), who has been in the forefront of efforts to decouple income support from acreage plantings, advocates replacing the variable deficiency payment with a fixed and gradually declining payment.     But many farm state lawmakers are turned off by the idea of offering fixed subsidies to farmers who plant nothing.     Some congressional staff members said they are intrigued by the notion of having the federal government subsidize the purchase of "call" options to help farmers hedge their income risk.     By buying a call option, the farmer would obtain the right to buy a commodity at a particular price. If the market price rose above that option price, the farmer could exercise the option and sell the commodity on the spot market, making up most of the reduction in the deficiency payment.     An aide to Boschwitz said the senator might offer legislation linking options and decoupling, but that it might have to await the results of a pilot project on futures and options trading mandated by the 1985 farm bill.     The bill required USDA, in association with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to conduct a pilot program in at least 40 counties which produce major program crops.     The program, only recently launched, was designed to encourage producers to participate in futures and options markets and to ensure that producers' net returns would not fall below the county loan level for the crops in question.  Reuter &#3;

