29-JUN-1987 17:46:17.66

LIMITED IMPACT SEEN FROM U.S. TAX ACCORD ACTION

A U.S. decision ending a forty-year tax treaty covering the Netherlands Antilles was unlikely to have a major impact on the Eurobond market, tax experts said.     Most U.S. firms stopped using financial subsidiaries incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles to sell to the Eurobond market in July, 1984, the experts said.     But the decision affects Eurobonds issued before July 1984 involving principal worth an estimated 30 billion dlrs and will probably mean those bonds will be called before their maturity date, they said.     Since most of the bonds are currently trading at a premium, calling them in early will mean a loss in market value for the bondholders, according to a Treasury official who asked not to be identified.     The official said the Treasury Department was currently unsure about the impact of the move on the Eurobond market.     "We are monitoring the situation and receiving reports from investors and issuers," the official said.     Earlier, the Treasury said it notified the Netherlands of the termination of the treaty effective January 1, 1988.     For years, U.S. firms seeking to avoid a 30 pct withholding tax used financial subsidiaries incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles to sell Eurobonds, which are bonds issued abroad by an overseas financial subsidiary.     But most companies have since taken advantage of a 1984 change in the law known as the exemption for portfolio interest that allows them to sell directly in the Eurobond market and avoid the withholding tax.     The 1984 tax change sharply reduced the number of U.S. companies using the Netherlands Antilles to sell Eurobonds, said Steven Hannes of accounting firm Touche Ross and Co.     Ending the tax treaty will mean that some foreigners investing in the U.S. through the Netherlands Antilles will lose tax benefits and probably change their portfolios, Hannes said.     He said the decision would mainly affect foreign investors who sought tax advantages because they reside in countries which do not have a tax treaty with the United States.     These investors typically reside in countries in the Middle East, Central and South America, he said.     Some of them may withdraw their U.S. investments or seek tax relief through the Netherlands itself or Switzerland, but the choices are limited, Hannes said.     "It is conceivable their investment may stay here. They would bear some of the tax that has not been borne in the past," Hannes said.     U.S. domestic bonds are not affected by the change.     U.S. companies with Eurobonds issued through the Netherlands Antilles are expected to call them early to avoid the tax liability, a Treasury Department spokesman said. But they could refinance at lower rates because of the general decline in interest rates, so the Department does not expect U.S. firms to be hurt by the decision, the spokesman said. Negotiations between the United States and the Netherlands continued without success since the late 1970's. The differences centered on U.S. concern over residents of third countries avoiding U.S. taxes by using the treaty with the Netherlands Antilles.  Reuter &#3;

