13-MAR-1987 12:57:10.14

MIDLAND UNIT PULLS OUT OF EQUITY MARKET MAKING

Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said its Greenwell Montagu Securities unit would pull out of equity market making and concentrate instead on providing a broker dealer and agency service for its clients.     The operation has become the first major casualty in the London markets since deregulation last October abolished fixed commissions and allowed the merging of broking and jobbing operations into market making activities.     A spokesman said Greenwell Montagu Gilt Edged, which is a primary gilt edged market maker, and Greenwell Montagu stockbrokers, were not affected by the decision.     The market making operation had encountered much greater competition than had been expected in the post-Big Bang period, the spokesman added.     Although Midland considered that the operation would be viable in the long term, it would require the concentration of greater resources than could be justified for an operation that was not a core Midland activity. He confirmed Greenwell Montagu Securities had been losing money in past months.     The pull out from market making would be conducted in an orderly fashion in the near future. There might also be some job losses, he said without giving any details.     Market sources said it was no great surprise that a market maker had pulled out, as the intensity of competition had suggested for some time that sooner or later someone would decide to withdraw.     They said some retreat by Greenwell had been likely because of its losses, and added there also been speculation that it could pull out of market making in gilts also.     The move was unlikely to have any major impact on market confidence, as the occasional speculation in the past few weeks had had little impact.     Analysts said commission rates on institutional equity trades have dropped sharply in the five months since deregulation, with some firms covering some of their reduced profits by trading on their own account.     In a recent report, Greenwell Montagu Research said, "Those who have made profits are either immensely clever or immensely lucky. Some are already approaching the pain barrier, others are prepared to tough it out. But until some players withdraw from the market, it will be difficult to improve profitability."     Dealers said the pace of withdrawals was likely to speed up in the next year, and would intensify if the three-month bull run on the London stock exchange petered out.  REUTER &#3;

