25-MAR-1987 10:04:05.70

AMSTERDAM EXCHANGE ANNOUNCES MODERNISATION DRIVE

The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, engaged in a reform program to boost competitiveness, said it is launching a modernisation drive of its operational systems.     The move, announced one day after news of a first step toward integration of financial market supervision in the Netherlands, will involve new transaction and clearing and settlement systems.     In addition, the bourse's Amsterdam Interprofessional Market (AIM) information system will be updated in short term with software provided by the Chicago Midwest Stock Exchange.     The Amsterdam bourse is also studying the possible acquisition of Midwest Exchange software for a new order-routing system, a statement said, noting the market here remains firmly committed to the preservation of a trading floor.     "The Bourse management feels that, despite the discussions triggered by the intended closure of the trading floor in London, preparations for an overhaul of the trading floor in Amsterdam have to continue," the statement said.     The operational modernisation of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange follows several liberalisation measures aimed at stemming the flow of business to markets abroad.     The liberalisation, particularly the introduction of off-floor trading in stocks and bonds on a net-basis under the AIM system, has been described by bourse officials as Amsterdam's "little bang," a reference to sweeping reforms last October on the London Stock Exchange known as Big Bang.     AIM, started in a trial run early last year and officially in force from January 1 this year, is already credited with halting the growth in Dutch stocks traded abroad, mainly London.     Amsterdam, which feels an on-floor facility with fees is vital for smaller investors, said it needs to overhaul the floor to accommodate new technology and new members.     A new floor layout and order-routing system should be ready sometime next year, the statement said.     It said it was also planning a new on-screen Central Securities information System with prices from international exchanges, including the U.S. And Japan, stock information and company news.     Yesterday, the bourse announced it would start coordinating this summer market supervision with the options and futures trade in the Netherlands as a first step toward a unified financial markets watchdog. In addition, the bourse, options and gold futures price lists will be merged this April.     Transactions in Amsterdam are still processed with a now outdated punch card system while price information stemming from the larger off-floor deals done through AIM are not yet integrated in the bourse's big board.     A bourse spokesman said the exchange hoped to launch its screen information service by 1989, but added this service did not have first priority.     At present, bourse price information and company information announced by the bourse are published by a printer service while a select number of prices is available via teletext.  REUTER &#3;

