 4-MAR-1987 15:56:31.45

LEGISLATORS COOL TO NEW STOCK TAX IDEA

Key tax and budget lawmakers Wednesday expressed reservations about the suggested new securities tax, which has has aroused concern on Wall Street and put pressure on brokerage stocks.     Grappling with the need to either raise taxes or cut federal spending to meet the fiscal 1988 budget deficit target of 108 billion dlrs, House Speaker Jim Wright suggested the tax be studied as one way to raise more federal revenues.     The Texas Democrat's idea as first presented to House Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski this week would tax sales and purchases of securities. A tax of 0.25 to 0.5 percent would raise from 8.5 to 17 billion dlrs a year.     Rostenkowski, the chief taxwriter, considers it too early to back any tax increase idea but agreed to add the securities transfer tax to a long list of tax alternatives under review by congressional tax analysts, a spokesman said.     The Illinois Democrat has repeatedly stressed this year he is reluctant to back a tax increase so long as President Reagan maintains his staunch opposition.     "First we've got to decide whether to raise additional revenues. Only then can we consider the specific options. At this point nothing is on or off the table. It's just too early," Rostenkowski said in a statement.     He made no commitment to Wright in a private meeting Tuesday, and in fact was not asked for one, a House source said. The idea was presented only as something that might or might not be valuable, he said.     House Budget Committee chairman William Gray agreed it was another option to be looked at, if Congress decided it needed to raise revenues to reduce the deficit, an aide said.    The Pennsylvania Democrat does not intend to recommend specific tax proposals, the aide said. The Budget Committee will recommend a certain amount of revenue to be raised in 1988, but will leave to the taxwriting committee the decision on how the taxes will be raised.     The securities transfer tax would raise a hefty amount of revenue to ease Congress's difficult task of trimming the deficit by 61 billion dlrs this year to meet the target.     But some in Congress feared that such a tax could drive securities business offshore and hurt U.S. investment, and there were uncertainties about the details of the tax.     Democrats have not united behind any budget alternatives so far this year. This week they are scheduled to discuss the budget and possible spending cuts or tax increases but no decisions are anticipated, congressional sources said.     At the same time, without President Reagan's assent to a general tax increase, they are left with piecemeal taxes that are guaranteed to anger those who must pay.     "We could just do all of them," one congressional source said of the various tax ideas -- excise taxes, securities taxes, oil import fee and others.  Reuter &#3;

