12-MAR-1987 13:27:33.66

MAGMA <MGCPV> STOCK TRANSFERABILITY LIMITED

Newmont Mining Corp <NEM> said Magma Copper Co's certificate of incorporation and by-laws have been restated to limit the transferability of the company's stock.     In an information statement on its decision to distribute Magma stock as a dividend, Newmont said the changes "will impede any change of control of Magma."     It said this has been done by authorizing two closses of common stock -- 60 mln class A shares with one vote each and 38.1 mln class B shares with four votes each. In the dividend of one Magma share for each Newmont share outstanding announced Tuesday, Class B shares are being distributed.     Newmont is distributing 30,458,100 Magma shares, or 80 pct of the Class B common, to its shareholders.     It said this stock will be transferable as Class B stock until one entity acquires over 10 pct of the shares.     Any shares over 10 pct of those outstanding will automatically be changed by the transfer agent to Class A stock, Newmont said.     The company said there are two exceptions under the bylaws -- the 15 pct of Magma's stock it is retaining and the 21 pct which will be held by <Consolidated Gold Fields PLC> as a result of its ownership of that portion of Newmont.     However, Newmont Secretary Roger Adams said, any additional Magma shares acquired by Newmont or Consolidated will automatically become Class A shares.     None of the authorized Class A shares is being distributed at this point, Newmont said.     The company also said five pct of Magma's stock is being held in trust for members of Magma's management.     Newmont said Magma's restated certificate of incorporation also limits change in control of the company by dividing the board into three classes serving staggered terms.     Newmont said the new Magma rules also provide that shareholder action can be taken only at shareholder meetings, prohibiting shareholder action by written consent, and include "fair price" provisions limiting combinations with any holder of more than 10 pct of Magma's voting power.  Reuter &#3;

