26-MAR-1987 15:48:29.13

HONDA EXPORTS FIRST U.S.-MADE CARS

Japanese-owned Honda American Manufacturing Co has exported the first U.S.-built cars ever sold overseas by a foreign-owned auto company, a Honda spokesman said.     The subsidiary of Honda Motor Co Ltd <HMC.T> of Japan shipped 200 of its popular Accord cars to Taiwan earlier this month, the spokesman said. The company might also eventually send U.S.-made cars to Japan, he said.     The automaker said it would not boost its U.S. imports of cars from Japan, but instead make up demand for its cars in the U.S. by increasing U.S. production.     The shipment to Taiwan was part of planned shipments to San-Yan Industries of Taiwan of about 2,000 Accords a year.     Honda said it does not make Accords in Taiwan, and is prevented by Taiwanese import restrictions from shipping them there from Japan.     Those restrictions were loosened this year to allow imports from the United States. Previously no imports of foreign-built cars were allowed, the spokesman said.     The Accords were built at Honda's U.S. car and motorcycle production facility at Marysville, Ohio. Honda in the past has sent motorcycles from Marysville to Europe and Australia, and has sent cars to Canada.     Honda's U.S. output would have to be adjusted to meet changing U.S. demand, the spokesman said. He quoted American Honda president Tetsuo Chino as saying, "Honda will not increase U.S. imports beyond the current level even if voluntary export restrictions on Japanese cars are lifted."      Analysts say there are few signs Japan's restrictions will be lifted.     Honda might decide by the end of this year whether to expand its U.S. production, the spokesman said.     Honda said it is considering building either of its two new luxury models--the "Legend" or "Integra"--in the United States.     The Legend and Integra, two models of the company's Acura line, were introduced last March. If the cars prove popular enough, one of them could be built at the Ohio plant, or at a new factory, the spokesman said.     The spokesman said it is possible Acuras built in the United States could be shipped back to Japan. However, he said that decision has not yet been made, and would follow the decision to build the cars in the United States.     If demand for either one of the two cars reaches 100,000 vehicles a year, Honda could decide to build the cars in the U.S., the company said.     Sales of the Integra through February have outpaced the Legend--35,768 against 29,824--but the spokesman said Honda expects sales to "lean more heavily toward Legend" this year because a two-door Legend has been added to the line.      Reuter &#3;

