29-JUN-1987 06:27:31.93

VW SUFFERS IMAGE LOSS IN WAKE OF CURRENCY SCANDAL

Share analysts and commentators say Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> has suffered an enormous loss of face from which it could take time to recover over its 473 mln mark currency swindle.     An auditors' report on the affair, prepared in time for this week's annual shareholders' meeting, largely cleared the management of Volkswagen of blame.     But "mud sticks," said Gavin Launder, an analyst with Scrimgeour Vickers in London.     (See index on ECRA)     The financial daily, Boersenzeitung, wrote in a commentary: "More devastating than the losses linked to the currency scandal is the resulting loss of image for the company."     VW had to make provisions of 473 mln marks to cover losses from unauthorised foreign exchange deals which the auditors, Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft, said highlighted major gaps in the supervisory apparatus of the firm's financial department.     The auditors' report highlighted failings in VW's controlling system, especially in relation to a 385 mln mark deal with the Hungarian National Bank, but shed little light on why they were made.      It said the contracts did not benefit VW and were only advantageous to its banks. It did not detail how the foreign exchange dealers may have profitted.     It concluded: "The nature, scope and technical construction of the deals ... Suggest a targeted and professionally executed manipulation to the detriment of VW."     The head of the finance department, Rolf Selowsky, resigned days after the scandal broke in March. He is not accused of any wrongdoing, but auditors concluded he had "not applied the necessary diligence in all instances."     Two former VW foreign exchange dealers have been arrested.     But even VW admits that the report, published last week, revealed important company failings.     Peter Frerk, who has temporarily taken over Selowsky's reponsibilities, said the findings were "not a first class acquittal." The currency swindle was a "lamentable event for our company," he told journalists.     The auditors said the remaining members of VW's management board and supervisory board had correctly fulfilled their obligations, a verdict which almost certainly means that major West German banks, who vote on behalf of large numbers of shareholders, will ratify both boards at the July 2 meeting.     Many market analysts, especially in London, do not believe a sharp rise in VW's share price last week reflects a major reassessment of the firm on the basis of the auditors' report.     The stock closed at 430 marks on Friday, up 11 pct from a week earlier. Dealers referrred to short-term bargain-hunting, and one London broker said "I'm not sure it's much of a bargain." Most brokers said they would not recommend clients to buy at these levels.     Analysts believe VW will do well to match its 1986 group net profit of 582 mln marks this year, and one broker in London said the company would be lucky to report profits only 15 pct down.     VW is expected to fare very well both in its home market and in Europe. But sales have fallen sharply in the U.S and Brazil, where the latest price freeze could exacerbate results even further.     The company hopes to benefit in the long term from its takeover of the Spanish company SEAT, but this subsidiary is still producing losses.     VW has also just announced a deal to build light pick-up trucks with Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> at an under-utilised plant in Hanover, but analysts noted production here was only expected to take off fully in 1990.  REUTER &#3;

