13-APR-1987 14:12:41.37

FIRMS ASK EXEMPTIONS FROM JAPANESE TARIFFS

Nearly 50 manufacturers and trade groups asked the Reagan Administration for exclusions from the tariffs it is to impose on Japanese exports Friday.     Several police agencies also told a special screening panel they wanted a Japanese-made fingerprinting system to be excluded because it was vital for crime-fighting.     Another 25 firms are to testify tomorrow.     President Reagan announced the tariffs on March 27 to retaliate for Japan's failure to honor an agreement to stop dumping semiconductors in world markets outside the United States at below cost and to open its own market to U.S. goods.     U.S. semiconductor makers had complained they were being injured by Japan's unfair trade practices.     The tariffs of 100 pct - up from about five pct - are to be applied to 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese exports including power tools, television sets, computer parts and audio equipment, in addition to the fingerprinting equipment.     Reagan issued a list of several dozen products that could be subject to the tariffs, and businessmen, lobbyists and others asked for the exclusions in the two days of public testimony that began today at the Commerce Department.     He said "action should be taken in such a manner that efforts to help the semiconductor industry do not inflict extensive economic damage on the highly successful information technology industry."     A spokesman for Amdahl Corp <AMH>, a computer maker, said it would be hit hard by tariffs on Fujitsu Ltd equipment because Fujitsu was its only supplier of key electronic components.     Makita U.S.A., Inc, a maker of hand-held electric power tools, said if tariffs were imposed on its goods it would have to close its U.S. manufacturing operation in Buford, Ga., and layoff its entire U.S. workforce of 600 people.     The U.S. Trade Representative's Office, which is conducting the hearings, said the products to be assessed the higher tariffs will be made public on Thursday or Friday.     It said it would base its judgment on the impact of the tariffs on the companies hit as well as on the buying public.     Some of the tariffs would double the price of imports.     Law officers from California, Illinois, Alaska and elsewhere said they relied on NEC Corp of Japan's advanced fingerprinting system and asked it be exempt from the new tariffs.     Fred Wynbrandt, representing the California attorney general's office, said the tariffs would double California state and local costs for fingerprinting operations.     Many of those testifying backed the idea of retaliatory tariffs but not on some goods that would hit their business.     Vico Henriques, president of the Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers Association, called for exemptions for components that U.S. firms bought in Japan and for goods made in Japan under a U.S. license or by a joint venture.  more &#3;

