23-MAR-1987 12:42:33.97

WELLCOME SETS UP RETROVIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM

<Burroughs Wellcome Co> said it has set up a distribution system to ensure the people in most need can get Retrovir, the first drug shown to have activity against AIDS, during an initial period while supplies of the drug are limited.     At a press conference here, Paul Dreyer, the company's product manager for the drug, said physicians must submit an enrollment application to the company for each new patient who is a candidate for taking the drug.     The company is the U.S. arm of Wellcome Plc.     The application will list several items required to evaluate a patient. The company will inform doctors within one week if a patient meets enrollment criteria and whether there are sufficient amounts of the drug available.     On Friday, the Food and Drug Administration approved the drug for wide clinical use. The drug is not a cure for AIDS, but it does prolong the lives of certain people with AIDS, who have a history of certain types of pneumonia, and patients with an advanced form of AIDS-related complex whose immune systems have declined after infection with the virus.     The company said it only has enough supply of the drug to treat 15,000 patients and by the end of the year should have enough supply to treat 30,000 patients.     Dreyer said physicians can call 1-800-843-9388 for information about distribution of the drug, and pharmacists can call 1-800-322-1887 to place orders for the drug.     Dreyer added this distribution system will end once an adequate supply of the drug is available.     Thomas Kennedy, vice president of corporate affairs, declined to comment on the cost of developing the drug.     Some organizations have criticized the high cost of the drug, which is said to be between 7,000 and 10,000 dlrs per year for treatment. Dreyer said it took seven months to make the drug, and the company obtained the principal raw material from Pfizer Inc <PFE>.     Dryer said the company is developing other suppliers.     The company said it spent 80 mln dlrs for the raw materials for the drug and an undisclosed amount on research, but would not disclose the total cost of developing Retrovir.     Burroughs has cited the high cost of making the drug as one of the reasons for its cost.  Reuter &#3;

