 7-APR-1987 08:25:50.90

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - FOREIGN BANKS IN GERMANY

Foreign banks in West Germany are reassessing their positions after a number of changes in the markets and the regulatory environment that have dampened a once-euphoric enthusiasm for expansion here.     Banking sources said the most important changes were plans to bring securities holdings into capital lending ratios, the first such move in a major financial centre. This could place a serious burden on several foreign banks, particularly those active in primary and secondary bond markets. Foreign banks had much lower equity and reserve capital than most domestic banks.     Senior banking sources said talks between the Bundesbank and the banking supervisory office over bringing securities -- primarily bonds -- under banking laws governing capital ratios were in progress.     Although no date had been set for imposition, banks as early as this year may be obliged to bring bonds under 1985 rules that limit bank lending to 18 times shareholders equity and reserves.     Although other national regulatory authorities are known to be considering similar steps in light of growing securitisation of debt previously in the balance sheet, Germany, with its tradition of prudence, may be the first.     Brian Kissack, president of the Foreign Banks Association, told Reuters, "It's not a positive sign. It could cause certain people who are not in (West Germany) to query whether it was as attractive to get in now."     Larger banks may begin to use global networks to pass on holdings in mark securities to other centres which had less stringent ratios, taking business out of the country, he added.     But sources said foreign banks faced a host of other practical problems as well. These included,     -- the apparent unwillingness of the Bonn government to make an early move to abolish the stock exchange turnover tax.     -- signs that London's "Big Bang" may have deeper implications for German securities trading than first thought.     -- difficulty in finding experienced securities professionals to staff new subsidiaries.     -- growing pressure on commercial banking margins that is forcing widespread retrenchment and refocusing of activities.     -- the threat of having to face a renewed push for market share by the largest and most powerful Japanese banks.     By leaving the stock exchange turnover tax out of the initial negotiating session of the incoming federal coalition government, Bonn had dashed hopes it would soon be abolished.     The tax is 0.25 pct on each side of a securities trade by a non-bank, but it is not levied on public authority bonds.     This extra cost, particularly for finely-priced instruments such as floating rate notes, had kept much mark securities business firmly in the City, awaiting a change. But aside from this, London was more active than domestic houses had expected.     Large U.S., British, Japanese and Swiss investors often preferred to execute block trades -- 50,000 shares and up -- with City market makers who could absorb at least some of the paper in their own positions, diminishing the immediate impact on the share price.     Most German brokers and banks pass trades direct to the exchange floor, cutting profits or adding to costs.     Bank in Liechstenstein (Frankfurt) GmbH board member Michael Zapf said London's share of German securities business done was causing foreign banks without German units to weigh whether establishment costs involved were worth the returns.     Additional signs that London market makers may move into secondary level stocks had added to this concern, he said.     Now, plans by many foreign banks to transfer mark securities trading entirely to newly established, mainly Frankfurt-based units were being reassessed, sources said.     The continuing existence of the stock exchange tax had also effectively prevented the birth of a short-term mark paper market in certificates of deposit or commercial paper.     Many U.S. Investment and money centre banks in particular were hoping experience in these would provide the lever to prise open tight credit relationships between companies and their domestic "house" banks.     At the moment, U.S. Investment banks are expanding fastest here. A unit of Salomon Inc <SB.N> began last summer and Morgan Stanley Group Inc <MS.N> is currently fitting out offices, probably for a summer start to business.     A unit of <Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co> should begin operations toward year end. Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER.N> and Shearson Lehman Brothers are known to be weighing conversion of current, small operations to full-standing units.     But expansion had been hampered by the lack of experienced personnel in a hitherto fairly small market. The big three Swiss banks, which arrived between late 1985 and first half 1986, have been steadily building up securities departments, taking staff equally from domestic and foreign competitors.     The two U.S. Banks longest established here, Citibank AG and Chase Bank AG, had been particularly hard hit.     Both banks recently announced plans to cut back commercial activities and shut down German branch offices on orders from head office. In the competitive environment, return on assets employed was insufficient to meet requirements, sources said.     But the weakening attraction of "Financial Centre Germany" was unlikely to deter major Japanese banks from setting up full subsidiaries when the Bundesbank gives the green light for mark eurobond lead management probably around third quarter 1987.     Once banks such as Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd <DIKB.T> and Sumitomo Bank Ltd <SUMI.T> move in, competition for business, for staff and even for premises would soar, sources said.  REUTER &#3;

