27-MAR-1987 11:30:33.82&#5;&#5;&#5;RM

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - IRISH BUDGET

New Irish Prime Minister Charles Haughey, faced with a debt-ridden economy, will have to produce a harsh budget next week to impress financial markets, appease political opponents and maintain his tenuous hold on power, analysts said.     For Haughey, who failed to win an overall majority in last month's election, only scraped back into power when the speaker in parliament stepped in with his casting vote to decide a tied vote on who would be the next Prime Minister.     Heading a minority government and faced with a stagnant economy weighed down by debt, he has little room for manoeuvre.     The national debt has now reached 24.3 billion punts -- 10,000 dlrs for every man, woman and child on the island and per capita three times the size of Mexico's.     Its 19 pct unemployment rate is one of the highest in the European Community and 30,000 youngsters emigrate every year. The 58 pct income tax level could hardly be raised again.     Haughey, declining to be tied down on specifics, promised on the election trail to get Ireland out of the debt trap with an annual growth rate of 2.5 pct, compared to central bank predictions of 1.5 pct. Jobs were his top priority, he said.     For his crucial first budget, Haughey has ruled out any increase in the level of government borrowing and forecast "widespread cutbacks with severe restrictions right across the board."     Finance Minister Ray MacSharry also stressed that some of the 187,000 civil service jobs must go to trim Ireland's annual public wages bill of 2.84 billion punts.     "The big question now is to what extent he will grasp the nettle and cut in next Tuesday's budget," said Kevin Barry, economist with National and City Brokers.     "You have to cut the Exchequer Borrowing Recquirement (EBR) substantially and swiftly. He has to do it now," Barry said.     Noting that last year's EBR was 2.145 billion punts, he said "Two billion would be good news. The markets are already taking the view it is going to be tough."     "He has absolutely no room to maneouvre. He cannot spend to stimulate the economy. I don't see any good news in the short-term."     But he, like other analysts, rules out a debt-servicing crisis that would mean calling in the International Monetary Fund (IMF). "It's too easy to borrow aboard," he added.     The steady rise of sterling, the currency of one of Ireland's main trading partners, has been a boost to Irish exporters with the country recording a 31 mln punt trade surplus in February, the 10th surplus in a row.     Political uncertainty is not a major factor for the punt because the main political parties are all essentially conservative with no major economic policy switches expected.     New Fine Gael leader Alan Dukes, who replaced ousted Prime Minister Garret Fitzgerald at the head of the main opposition party, has pledged to back Haughey's budget if, as expected, he gets tough.     Haughey is four short of an overall majority and would have to rely on the support of independent deputies if all four opposition parties united to vote against him.     But in today's climate of economic austerity, few politicians would risk returning to the polls so soon and Haughey could cling to power for at least another two years if he brings in a belt-tightening budget next week, political commentators say.     The debt-laden economy is the great national preoccupation, pushing firmly into the background for now Haughey's ultimate dream of a united Ireland with the British out of the north.     H.J. Heinz chairman Tony O'Reilly, one of the most successful Irishmen in international business, stressed the need for a frontal attack on the national debt, arguing "many of our children have lost faith in the future."     "Were there to be an uptick in world interest rates or a precipitous decline in our parities, the effect on our economy and on the provision of services by our government would be catastrophic," he said.     This island of 3.5 mln people has been living beyond its means with a state spending spree on welfare benefits that could not be financed by economic growth.  REUTER &#3;

