12-MAR-1987 17:11:13.46

SEC ASKS NYSE TO TIGHTEN TRIPLE WITCHING PROCESS

The Securities and Exchange Commission asked the New York Stock Exchange to tighten an experimental procedure used in the past six months to dampen volatility linked to the so-called "triple-witching hour."     The Big Board has been collecting and publicizing information on large imbalances of "market-on-close" (MOC) orders placed on 50 major stocks one-half-hour before closing on so-called expiration Fridays in September and December.     Expiration Fridays, or triple witching hours, occur every three months when stock options, stock index options and futures on index options expire simultaneously.     As aribrageurs liquidated their futures and options on previous expiration Fridays, they sold huge amounts of stock which they had used to offset their positions.     The huge sell orders, which usually entered the market in the final frantic minutes on expiration Fridays triggered wild price swings in the 50 stocks which serve as the basis for the options and futures.     The gyrations prompted the SEC last September to request that the Big Board ask its members submit all MOCs by 1530 hrs on expiration Fridays, which would then be made public, giving the market a half-hour to settle order imbalances.     But in a March 12 letter to NYSE President Robert Birnbaum, SEC Director of Market Regulation cited problems in the experimental procedure during the Dec 19 expiration Friday.     A large number of MOC buy orders were not placed until after 1530 EST on Dec 19, which helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 21 points in the final minutes of the day to a 14.20-point gain on the day, Ketchum said.     Citing the SEC's concern about such trading, Ketchum asked the exchange to tighten its procedure by not accepting any pre-existing MOC orders after 1530 if they could have been placed earlier.     The new restriction, which SEC officials said merely clarifies the terms of the existing experimental procedure, would bar the liquidation of stocks through MOC orders for arbitrage purposes after 1530 hrs, even if they offset other reported order imbalances in those stocks.     The only MOC orders the SEC will allow to be placed after 1530 EST on March 20, the next expiration Friday, are those that are received by Big Board member firms after 1530 EST and which help reduce existing order imbalances, Ketchum said.     If there are no published imbalances in a particular stock, no MOC orders will be accepted in that stock, he said.     "If dissemination of MOC orders is to provide an accurate indication of true order imbalances, then all existing MOC orders must be submitted by 3:30 p.m. and only those new MOC orders responding to reported imbalances can be permitted," Ketchum said.     The letter did not say how the SEC or the NYSE would determine the difference between pre-existing MOC orders that would be barred, and new MOC orders that would be allowed to reduce imbalances. But an SEC official said the agency hopes the NYSE and its members would adhere to the rules "in a spirit of cooperation."  REUTER... &#3;

