19-JUN-1987 01:59:21.71

JAPAN REPORT SAYS FAULTY REPAIRS CAUSED JAL CRASH

Faulty repairs and inadequate inspection caused the 1985 crash of a Japan Airlines Co Ltd <JAPN.T> (JAL) Boeing 747 which killed 520 people, the Japanese government said in a final official report.     The clear cause of the crash was faulty repair work by the Boeing Co <BA>, said Shun Takeda, the ministry of transport official leading the accident investigation committee.     But the report also criticised the ministry's inspectors for failing to carry out a full check of the repairs before signing the clearance sheet.     The aircraft hit Mount Osutaka, north of Tokyo, on August 12, 1985, after a bulkhead separating the pressurised cabin from the unpressurised tail suddenly burst, fracturing key navigation systems. Only four people survived.     A Japan Air Lines spokesman declined comment on the report. Boeing is expected to release a statement later today.     The report cleared the JAL crew of all responsibility.     In a separate set of recommendations, the investigators said large aircraft operating in Japan should have fail-safe systems, but did not say how this should be done.     A press statement by a group of lawyers representing victims of the crash criticised the report for not dealing in greater depth with the fail-safe aspect.     The lawyers said Boeing had showed it believed the crash was due to design defects by specifying two design modifications to prevent a recurrence in a memorandum filed in King County, Washington, Superior Court last March 24.     They said similar official recommendations for fail-safe systems following two air disasters involving DC-10 aircraft, near Paris in 1974 and at Chicago in 1979, had been rejected after objections from aircraft manufacturers.     The government investigators asked the ministry to formulate concrete guidelines for its inspectors. An internal ministry memo earlier this year complained that inspectors were left too much on their own when making aircraft checks.     A Boeing team made repairs to the aircraft's aft bulkhead under JAL supervision, and Transport Ministry inspectors approved the repairs without actually seeing them, today's report said.     The inspectors were unable to check Boeing's work because the part repaired had been covered by a seal, the report said.     Over time, cabin pressurisation speeded up the process of metal fatigue in the repaired bulkhead.     Boeing issued an official statement on September 6, 1985, saying the 1978 repairs it had carried out were faulty. It did not link them with the crash.  REUTER &#3;

