25-MAR-1987 18:09:22.05

FARM CREDIT SYSTEM TO ASK FOR CONGRESSIONAL AID

A senior representative of the financially-troubled U.S. farm credit system is expected for the first time tomorrow to ask Congress to provide assurances that stock held by system borrowers will be guaranteed.     Farm credit sources said Brent Beesley, president of the Farm Credit Corporation which represents the system, will make the request at a Senate Agriculture subcommittee hearing.     They said Beesley would ask Congress to take some action to assure borrowers the stock is secure. But Beesley is expected to stop short of requesting other forms of government aid.     Borrowers from the farm credit system hold some four billion dlrs in system stock which could be devalued if the mounting losses of the system persist, officials said.     Beesley's request expected tomorrow is seen as the first official acknowledgment from the system itself that federal aid will be needed to guarantee the value of the stock.     Yesterday, Jim Billington, a member of the Farm Credit Administration board which regulates the system, said Congress should plan to spend at least 800 mln dlrs beginning late this year to bail-out the system.     Congress is moving swiftly toward legislation to aid the system. Sen. James McClure, R-Idaho, has drafted a resolution which would put the Senate on record as guaranteeing the value of farm credit system stock. The resolution may be brought to the Senate floor soon, Congressional sources said.     In addition to requesting a guarantee of borrower stock, Beesley is expected tomorrow to endorse the creation of a secondary market, called "Aggie-mae" by some proponents, for the resale of farm real estate loans.     Sources said the farm credit system will support the idea if the system is included in the operation of the market.     Farm credit sources said the system decided to request a guarantee of borrower stock at a meeting this week in Denver of the 12 presidents of farm credit system districts.     Beesley's testimony to the Congressional hearing tomorrow will not include any new financial forecast of system losses, officials said.     Chairman of the FCA, Frank Naylor, yesterday said the system may lose as much as 1.4 billion dlrs this year.  Reuter &#3;

