30-MAR-1987 14:16:32.16

TALKING POINT/WALL STREET STOCKS

Investors who have been riding the bull market in U.S. stocks got a stinging reminder today of how unexpected news can trigger sharp reversals.     "The market was ripe for some type of pullback," said Frank Korth, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. He said over the weekend, investors pondered President Reagan's decision to impose tariffs on Japanese electronic goods and some concluded the step could signal the beginning of a trade war.     The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 79 points in 30 minutes before stabilizing and making a partial recovery.     Korth believes there has been an over-reaction and near-term traders might want to step in and buy one-half or one-quarter of new investments they have been considering.     "We're still in a bull market," said William Raftery of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. He thinks history has shown such sharp pullbacks are a natural part of bull markets. "The bear usually strikes slowly," he said.     Raftery noted that blue chips have been forefront of the rally that took the market to record highs last week. In today's decline, he said, the big name stocks were coming more into a more normal alignment with the general market.     Charles Comer of Moseley Securities Corp said ultimately the pullback could prove to be a pre-shock to the long awaited correction. But for now he believes the bull market remains intact. However, it could take several weeks for the market to complete a "distribution process" and along the way there will be rallies.     Comer thinks it is premature to conclude that today's action signaled formation of a market top. He thinks the market can hold in the low to mid 2200 area on the Dow index.     "This probably is the correction that has been expected," said Crandall Hays of Robert W. Baird Co.     Hays noted that market breadth began to deteriorate last week. He said this morning investors saw the dollar down further, interest rates up and gold up. "The trade problem got people spooked and and all the bad things were happening at once," he said.     "This correction could take us down 150 points and we're half-way there now," he said early today.     He thinks the downward move in stock prices could be over in a couple of weeks. Business conditions seem to be getting better according to what he hears from a broad cross-section of companies, from retailers to machinery manufacturers.     "The market was high and people were looking for a correction, so this was an excuse for the market to go down," said Alan Ackerman of Gruntal and Co.     He believes investors will be in a mood of extreme caution or slightly negative for the near term.     Ackerman thinks the U.S. is attempting to "fire a shot across Japan's bow and let them know we're serious about having closer trade ties." But nevertheless investors have been rattled by "a perception that a full scale trade war is possible." Ultimately, unless there is an accord, the effects could be higher interest rates and unemployment, he said.     "I anticipate a further correction later this week," said Harry Laubscher of Tucker Anthony, R.L. Day. He thinks the pullback was "the start of an overdue correction of between six and 10 pct from the market highs."     Although investors now have new reason to worry about higher interests rate and a return of inflation, Laubscher says, "it is not the end of the bull market."     "The market was looking for a reason to knock itself down a little bit, and with the trade sanctions coming largely as a surprise, this was the think the market attached itself to," said Gary Ciminero of Fleet Financial Group. &#3;

