18-JUN-1987 04:31:05.60

BERISFORD SIX PCT PROFIT RISE MAINTAINS MOMENTUM

S and W Berisford Plc <BRFD.L> said a six pct rise in pretax profits to 42.7 mln stg in the first half had maintained last year's momentum despite poor commodities trading conditions and continued rationalisation costs.     Its British Sugar Corp Plc unit produced its best ever performance due to greater efficiency and better selling prices and was on course for record full year profits.     In the last year Berisford attempted to sell the unit and attracted several bids. A bid by Hillsdown Holdings Plc <HLDN.L> was abandoned, one from Tate and Lyle Plc <TATL.L> officially blocked and a sale of BSC to <Gruppo Ferruzzi> also prevented.     It had authorised a further 46 mln stg in capital expenditure in BSC for next year, eight mln higher than the anticipated total this year.     Berisford said it was particularly pleased with the progress of its associate Hunter Saphir Plc, in which it acquired a substantial equity stake in January in return for the sale of some of its food manufacturing companies.     Since the deal was completed, the market value of the stake in Hunter had almost doubled and at the same time enabled the group to concentrate efforts in its food division on ingredients -- mainly sugar, gelatine and flavours.     The property division maintained good growth while financial services made a satisfactory contribution to profits. However, the results of the industrial division continued to be disappointing although the rationalisation programme was progressing well.     Commodity operations returned to profit after a second half loss last year. The results reflected dull market conditions, with coffee trading failing to repeat last year's exceptional first half performance due to extremely difficult conditions in world markets.     It said it was reducing its exposure to the volatility of commodity earnings by concentrating on a smaller range of key commodities.     Berisford shares firmed one penny on the announcement to 366p.  REUTER &#3;

