15-MAR-1987 02:25:10.09

PANEL HEAD SAYS MARCOS STILL CONTROLS LARGE FUNDS

The head of a Philippine panel charged with recovering illegal wealth accumulated by former President Ferdinand Marcos and his associates said they still controlled large funds circulating in the country's economy.     Ramon Diaz, Chairman of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) told Reuters in an interview: "There is every reason to believe that the cronies and President Marcos and his family were able to hide millions and millions of pesos before they fled. As a matter of fact we have been able to get hold of crates of newly printed currency."     Diaz did not give figures, but said: "We believe they still have a lot of funds. These are the funds that they will use in the coming elections. These are the funds that they used to stage those coups."     He was referring to congressional elections scheduled for May 11 and to the three coup attempts faced by President Corazon Aquino since she toppled Marcos a year ago.     Diaz said the PCGG so far has recovered cash and property valued at about eight billion pesos and had sequestered shares of stock of at least 286 firms. "We have achieved more than what we thought we could achieve in one year," he added.     The PCGG, set up by Aquino in February 1986, has sweeping powers of sequestration, seizure and inspection of bank accounts. Diaz said the panel's main task is to gather evidence for legal prosecution. "But we have to sequester before we file a case and that is the legal objection because they say that we shoot first before we ask questions," he said.     He said dividends from seized shares were held in trust funds pending court verdicts, adding several Marcos associates had made confessions about their wealth. He did not name them.     "They are very concerned and afraid that if their names appear something may happen to them," he said.     The government last week announced that businessman Antonio Floirendo, an associate of Marcos known as the "banana king," had turned over 70 mln pesos in cash to the PCGG and promised to surrender titles to property in New York and Hawaii worth another 180 mln pesos. In return, the PCGG said it had lifted freeze and sequestration orders on Floirendo's properties.     Diaz said there were already similar preliminary agreements with another Marcos associate, Roberto Benedicto. He said Benedicto had surrendered control of several newspapers and radio and television stations and agreed to PCGG control of the boards of a bank and a hotel he owned in the Philippines.     Diaz said the PCGG based its estimates of illegal wealth on income-tax returns and land titles of Marcos associates. "Anything over and above reported income -- that's what we have to recover," he said.     He said a decision by the PCGG last week to probe street certificates held by brokers at Manila's two stock exchanges was prompted by suspicion that illegal funds were in circulation.     Street certificates describe securities held in the name of a broker or another nominee instead of a customer so as to permit easy trading or transfer.     Share prices at the two exchanges reacted nervously last Tuesday when news of the probe leaked. The composite index at the Manila Stock Exchange fell 18.61 points to 451.51, while that at the Makati Stock Exchange slipped 1.7326 points to close at 63.0618. There was a slight recovery the following day.     The presidents of the two exchanges appealed to Diaz to carry out the probe discreetly so investors were not scared away, saying street certificates did not necessarily indicate "anomalous transactions."     "It's unfortunate that (news of the probe) leaked out to the papers," Diaz said.     Diaz said PCGG suspicions were aroused by the stock market boom over the past year. The Manila Stock Exchange composite index jumped 224 pct from 131.32 to 424.81 in 1986.     "One of our functions is to see to it that these assets that we have sequestered do not go right back into the hands of the (Marcos) cronies," he said.     "We want to make sure that these stock exchanges are not being manipulated by the cronies because maybe they want to launder their pesos and that is why the prices are just skyrocketing."     Diaz said the PCGG would limit its probe to sequestered stock in brewery giant San Miguel Corp, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co, mining conglomerate Benguet Corp, and Oriental Petroleum and Minerals Corp.     Shares of the four companies are among the most frequently traded on the two stock exchanges.     Diaz said at a meeting with the heads of the two exchanges last Thursday that the PCGG would act prudently in its investigation of street certificates, adding the panel supported government efforts to create a favourable investment climate.  REUTER &#3;

