 2-MAR-1987 05:16:36.39

JAPAN SALES TAX MAY FORCE NAKASONE OUT OF OFFICE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is likely to leave office this summer amid opposition to his controversial tax-reform package, political analysts said.     They said Nakasone's reputation as a skilled politician has suffered irreparable damage from his support of a five pct sales tax planned for January 1988.     "Nakasone is trying to carry out a drastic tax reform at the end of his administration, which is not only impossible but also is very irresponsible as a politican," Rei Shiratori, professor of politics at Dokkyo University, told Reuters.     "Nakasone will almost certainly step down as soon as parliament approves the sales tax, probably in the summer," Shiratori said.     Some ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) members of parliament have spoken against the tax, which Nakasone says is needed to balance planned cuts in income and corporate taxes.     Nakasone today called for disciplinary action against LDP members who oppose the tax. "There are some who are objecting because of their constituencies," he told a meeting of government and party leaders. "If the party discipline is broken, I would like to see punishment considered."     "A proposed sales tax has become a political issue, partly because Nakasone breached his election pledge against introducing it," Shiratori said.     "Moreover, the tax is being introduced when the public feels uncertainty about the sluggish economy stemming from the yen's appreciation and about the future when the Japanese society is rapidly aging," he said.     Political analysts said the controversial tax could affect the more than 2,500 local elections scheduled for April, involving governors, mayors, town and village heads and assemblies at all levels.     But the situation is complicated, since opposition parties excluding the communists sometimes put up joint candidates with the LDP, the political analysts added.     Shiratori said, "In the worst case, implementation of the sales tax, now scheduled for next January, may be put off for some time before the government makes a final decision.     "Another alternative is to modify the planned five pct to perhaps three pct.     "A third alternative for the government is to ram through the bills only with the attendance of LDP MPs," he said.     Seizaburo Sato, professor of politics at Tokyo University, thought the last possibility most likely. "I think the LDP alone will take a vote on the tax bills," he said.     The LDP now holds 304 seats in the 512-seat Lower House and 143 in the 252-seat Upper House.     To lure opposition parties back to parliament after the LDP pushes through the tax bills, the Nakasone cabinet will have to resign, Sato said.     "Boycotting opposition members will be more willing to return to parliament if a new cabinet has been formed," he said.  REUTER &#3;

