 4-MAR-1987 09:49:12.92

ANDRIESSEN HAILS EC MILK PACT, PROMISES FARM AID

European Community Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen welcomed the agreement on details of dairy output cuts over two years and promised new measures to help farmers hurt by the drive to reduce EC surpluses.     "We are now in a favourable position to improve the situation in the dairy sector," he told a news conference.     The Commission will be able to proceed with a 3.2 billion European Currency Unit plan to dispose of over a mln tonnes of butter in EC stores, as the deal should prevent major new stocks from accruing.     A preliminary accord on the dairy package was reached in December, but approval was held up by a row over Commission proposals that it be given power to suspend sales of surplus stocks into store.     After 36 hours of negotiations, ministers agreed detailed rules for such a suspension, allowing it only when new public stocks of butter exceed 180,000 tonnes and when market prices were sharply below those paid for sales into EC stores.     Andriessen said the accord improves the atmosphere for what he said are bound to be tough discussions on his proposals for cuts in EC farm price cuts, notably in cereals, in the coming season.     The ministers also approved a three-year 350 mln Ecu package of measures to help farmers in difficulty and pay compensation to those who opt for less intensive production methods. Andriessen said he regretted ministerial objections had forced him to withdraw sections of this package, for which he had originally earmarked 1.3 billion Ecus over five years.     He said he would revise and resubmit plans to allow older farmers to take early retirement, either taking their land out of agricultural production or passing it to successors.     The Commission is also working on proposals to enable the EC and member states to provide direct income supports to hard-pressed small farmers. Andriessen said he could not give full details, but member state aid would be subject to "strict criteria to avoid distortion of competition."  Reuter &#3;

