16-MAR-1987 03:58:34.75

OPPOSITION TO PROPOSED SALES TAX SPREADS IN JAPAN

Opposition to government plans to impose a five pct sales tax is spreading nationwide ahead of the start of campaigning for local elections next week, political analysts said.     The Asahi Shimbun said 31 of the 47 prefectural assemblies had so far opposed, demanded amendments to, or expressed wariness about the tax. Assemblymen from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have also joined the opposition against the tax in 11 prefectural assemblies, the daily reported.     About 2,600 elections will be held on April 12 and 26 for a wide range of local posts, including 13 governors.     The sales tax is one of the main planks of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system.     A close aide to Nakasone has said the sales tax issue will have a minimal impact on the local elections because centrist parties by and large support LDP candidates in many of the races for governors. In the assembly elections, even LDP candidates oppose the tax, he said.     On March 8, the LDP lost an Upper House by-election in the conservative stronghold of Iwate Prefecture in northern Japan for the first time in 25 years. The opposition socialist winner campaigned on the single issue of the sales tax.     The surprise LDP defeat in Iwate, coupled with Nakasone's sagging popularity, has forced the party to compromise with the opposition and agree to postpone public hearings on the fiscal 1987/88 budget to March 19/20 from March 13/14.     The opposition parties have been staging recurring parliamentary boycotts to show their disapproval of the sales tax contained in the budget. They returned to the Lower House Budget Committee last Friday but walked out again after a few hours, demanding detailed data on the tax. But parliamentary sources said they are expected to agree in a day or two to dispose of some of 29 bills the LDP will submit.     The bills include nine which will become extinct on March 31 unless some action is taken, the sources said. These cover such uncontroversial topics as wages for diplomats and revisions of the law covering court employees.     Discussion is also expected of a provisional budget to allow the government to continue operating while debate on the main budget continues beyond the April 1 start of fiscal 1987/88, the sources said. The provisional budget could cover some 50 days and include authorisation for spending on some public works. Otherwise, parliament will go into virtual recess until local elections start on April 12, they said.  REUTER &#3;

