 7-APR-1987 15:03:32.33

REUTER WORLD NEWS HIGHLIGHTS 1800 GMT APRIL 7

Scores of Syrian troops marched into the battered Shatila Palestinian refugee camp in Beirut in a bid to quell five months of fighting in Lebanon's "camps war," witnesses said. Beirut radio stations said Syrian troops would deploy at points around the camp, besieged by Shi'ite Moslem Amal militia, to guarantee freedom of movement for refugees.     - - - -     WASHINGTON - President Reagan said neither the United States nor the Soviet Union would occupy new embassies in each other's capitals until he was certain the new U.S. Building in Moscow was secure. He added a special review board headed by former Defence Secretary Melvin Laird would examine serious security breaches at the U.S. Diplomatic mission in Moscow.     - - - -     BAHRAIN - Iran reported launching a new offensive east of Iraq's southern city of Basra, saying troops supported by planes had killed over 2,400 Iraqis. Baghdad said its forces had repulsed the attack, killing thousands of Iranians.     - - - -     ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium - A capsized British car ferry with up to 140 bodies entombed inside was winched upright in a mammoth salvage operation.     - - - -     BONN - West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl told President Ronald Reagan in a letter that Bonn backed a superpower pact to ban medium-range missiles from Europe but was concerned about any parallel ban on shorter-range missiles.     - - - -     BRUSSELS - Syria, a key state in Middle East politics, is showing flexibility towards the idea of an international conference on peace in the region, Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans said after talks with King Hussein of Jordan.     - - - -     WASHINGTON - Kuwait has asked at least four countries, including the United States and Soviet Union, for use of their flags or tankers to protect oil shipments in the Gulf, U.S. Officials said. Britain and China were also asked, they added.     - - - -     CHANDIGARH, India - Sikh extremists killed five people and set ablaze cigarette, liquor and barber shops in Punjab in a new trial of strength with the state's moderate government over fundamentalist reforms.     - - - -     LONDON - Prospects for a June election in Britain rose after senior members of Prime Minister Thatcher's Conservative party urged her to go to the country a year early in the wake of more polls giving the party a commanding lead.     - - - -     ROME - Italy's government is expected to fall tomorrow following a decision by the majority Christian Democrats to withdraw their 16 ministers unless Socialist Prime Minister Bettino Craxi resigns, political sources said.     - - - -     BAHIA BLANCA, Argentina - Pope John Paul began a swing through Argentina's rich agricultural interior with a strong defence of the rights of rural workers, saying they had been neglected too long.     - - - -     ANKARA - A Turkish military court jailed former deputy prime minister Alpaslan Turkes for 11 years on charges of forming an armed gang and sentenced five supporters to death for murder, Anatolian Agency reported.  REUTER &#3;

