 4-MAR-1987 15:02:15.77

CME POSTPONES RULING ON DUAL TRADING PETITION

Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, directors have postponed action on a membership petition calling for a ban on dual trading, CME Chairman Jack Sandner told Reuters.     Consideration of the petition was scheduled for a regular board meeting today, but directors first wanted the opinions of a special committee that has been studying trading conditions in the Standard and Poor's 500 futures pit for the last six months.     "We didn't want to preempt the committee," Sandner said.     Instead, Sandner said the board will wait for the findings of the special S and P committee, which is considering some type of restriction on dual trading in S and P 500 futures.     Dual trading is the legal practice in which an exchange member can execute customer orders as well as trade for his own account. Critics maintain the practice provides an opportunity for traders to "front-run" or trade their own accounts at more favorable prices before customer orders are executed. Sandner said he expects the special committee to report its findings late next week and the board to act when those findings are presented.     In response to reports that the CME board is opposed to a ban on dual trading, Sandner pointed out that the board already unanimously approved a partial ban on dual trading in S and P 500 futures at a prior meeting.     The change was withheld, however, at the request of the special committee after a study was released and the committee felt the issue should be addressed more comprehensively, Sandner said.     Sandner said that he personally had no aversion to a ban on dual trading and "the leadership (of the CME) is not opposed to a ban on dual trading."     Last week, CME special counsel Leo Melamed said the special study committee is considering changes only for S and P 500 futures and options on futures.     In addition to the dual trading issue, the committee is also expected to make recommendations on the possibility for electronic order entry and execution for S and P 500 futures and rule changes to alleviate crowded conditions in the S and P trading pit, Melamed said.     Melamed said at the time that in matters where a special committee is appointed, recommendations from the committee are usually approved by the exchange board of directors.  Reuter &#3;

