11-MAR-1987 08:43:20.63

CLARK HOLDS TALKS WITH SHULTZ IN WASHINGTON

Foreign Secretary Joe Clark urged the United States to take firm action on reducing "acid rain" and on sticking with the strict interpretation of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty but said he won no promises.     After a day of meetings with Vice President George Bush, Secretary of State George Shultz and Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, Clark told a press conference he was persuaded the Reagan adminstration had begun to deal seriously with Canada and its concerns.     But he admitted he had won no assurances Washington would go along with his government's position on several key controversial issues.     "There's a lot more attention to Canadian files. What remains to be seen is how much progress will be achieved," he told reporters.     The meetings, which end today with talks on Capitol Hill, are part of a routine U.S.-Canadian consultation but are also expected to lay groundwork for a summit in Ottawa next month between President Reagan and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.     Clark discouraged speculation that lack of a firm American committment on the thorny issue of acid rain could render the summit a failure.     Canada is seeking evidence that Reagan is prepared to live up to a commitment made last year to implement in the United States a five-year five billion dlr U.S. program to test cleaner ways of burning coal.     "We expect the U.S. government to honor its commitment" and discussed this with Shultz today, Clark said.     "There's no question the matter is under serious detailed consideration at the highest levels of the U.S. government," he said, adding that Shultz "left my meeting today to attend a (White House) cabinet meeting that was discussing this as well as other questions."     "We will wait and see the results of that examination," he said.     Clark also said he reiterated Canada's position that the United States should adhere to a strict interpretation of the 1972 ABM treaty, the only remaining operative arms control agreement.  Reuter &#3;

