16-MAR-1987 02:28:01.58

VW CURRENCY LOSSES SEEN INVOLVING SEVERAL TRADERS

The extraordinary foreign exchange loss of 480 mln marks reported last week by Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> (VW) is so large that outside currency traders were probably involved in the case, currency sources said.     They were commenting after weekend newspaper reports that prosecutors were transferring the focus of their enquiries to Frankfurt, West Germany's main foreign exchange centre.     Volkswagen announced last Tuesday that it had called in prosecutors to investigate a possible fraud involving currency hedging.     The newspaper Welt am Sonntag said the investigation by state prosecutors was now considering whether the alleged VW currency manipulators had outside banking accomplices.     The transactions were only possible, "because the culprits possessed genuine bank forms, with the help of which they were able to deceive controllers for years," the newspaper said.     But currency sources said there were so many loopholes in every bank's currency dealing system that controls could easily be avoided.     Rolf Selowsky, financial member of the management board, has resigned in the wake of the affair, a VW spokesman said.     Selowksy's resignation followed a VW announcement on Friday that foreign exchange chief Burkhard Junger had been dismissed and Guenther Borchert, head of the financial transfer department, had been suspended along with Siegfried Mueller, head of the central cash and currency clearing.     Four other members of the foreign exchange staff were also suspended, but no charges have been laid.     VW Supervisory board chairman Karl Gustaf Ratjen said entire data tapes had been erased and programs altered in forged transactions.     Der Spiegel magazine said VW financial controllers discovered the uncovered positions on February 18 when VW expected a currency forward contract with the Hungarian National Bank to mature, but Hungarian bank officials said they knew nothing of the transaction and the supposed contracts were forgeries.     The Budapest-based bank refused to buy the dollars and has not commented on the affair.     The Hungarian National Bank is, along with the Soviet Bank of Foreign Trade, one of two major East Bloc currency traders and most major banks based in Germany deal with it regularly.     It would not be possible, the sources said, for any bank to renege on a genuine forward contract since this would immediately become known and effectively prevent the bank from operating further in the spot or forward currency markets.     Longer-maturity forward contracts, even contracts of up to 10 years, were now becoming more common, they said but the longer and larger the contract, the more likely it was that it would be transacted with a domestic institution.     Being one of Germany's most diversified multi-nationals, VW has exposure in a large number of currencies and dealt in these with most banks in Frankfurt and also abroad, sometimes through currency brokers, although it has the reputation of doing relatively little hedging, currency sources said.     "They (VW) are always in the market, more or less trading as a bank," one senior dealer said.     Some newspaper reports said the losses were incurred because of VW's failure to take out currency hedging contracts beginning at the end of 1984, when the dollar was rising.     But the currency sources said market speculation was that dollar income of around one billion dlrs was involved and that the bulk of the transactions occurred last year since which time around 50 pfennigs per dollar was lost when the dollar fall continued.     Longer-maturity currency contracts for more than 100 or 200 mln dlrs each were rare. Taking several in this size out with a single bank would be easily spotted by financial controllers.     One senior dealer for a German bank said, "There's no way they can have hoped to get away with it. It's too big."     The sources added that the involvement of the Federal Criminal Office (BKA) in Wiesbaden could indicate that the investigation would lead outside Germany.     BKA has the mandate to handle criminal cases that may involve foreign police forces or supranational services such as Interpol. However the branch also handles cases that transcend federal state borders within Germany.  REUTER &#3;

