29-JUN-1987 06:08:13.16

BANK OF JAPAN WORRIES ABOUT MARKET COLLAPSE

The Bank of Japan has become increasingly worried about a possible crash of high-flying financial markets, Bank of Japan sources said.     "We're afraid that someday the bubble will burst and that the deflationary impact on the economy will be very disastrous," one source said.     They said the central bank has embarked on a delicate policy -- it wants to deflate the speculation that has pumped up prices sharply in recent months without bursting the bubble.     Stock prices plunged 393.31 points today, extending the sharp declines of earlier this month, as the market speculated that interest rates would rise.     The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates of deposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to maintain an easy money policy, central bank officials said.     Today's CD buying operation was designed to reassure the market the Bank has not changed its policy, a senior central Bank official told Reuters.     "There is a possibility that a deflationary impact would permeate the economy if the prices of existing assets collapsed," the Bank of Japan said earlier this month in its annual economic report.     Such a possibility has been heightened by what the Bank sees as excessive speculation in stock, bond and land prices.     Over the last two years, the stock market average has doubled, driving price/earnings ratios to over 70, compared with about 15 on Wall Street. Bond yields have dropped sharply, while land prices in Tokyo have soared.     The excessive speculation means the markets are increasingly out of touch with economic reality and thus more vulnerable, one central bank source said.     A collapse now could rob businessmen and consumers of what little confidence they have in the economy after the yen-induced recession of the past year, private economists said.     Some hard-pressed exporters already make greater profits through financial dealings than from their basic businesses, they said.     "There seems to be an accelerated demand for money to support transactions in shares, bonds, land and other existing assets which has little bearing on value added and therefore on GNP," the Bank of Japan said in its report.     The increased inclination of investors to seek capital gains and the accompanying rise in prices of existing assets could have dangerous implications for the economy, it added.     In the Bank's view, a major reason behind skyrocketing prices was its own easy monetary policy and the belief in the market that interest rates were heading inexorably lower.     Mindful of the potential inflationary dangers posed by excessive liquidity, the Central Bank's board recently decided it had to spell out clearly to the markets that a further discount rate cut was not in the offing, one source said.     But the bank had to do that without tightening monetary policy and running the risk of a market collapse.     This was achieved partly by a rise in short-term interest rates, which Bank sources ascribed to seasonal pressures and to a change in market expectations.     While denying the bank was tightening monetary policy, a senior source welcomed the change in market expectations.     The source acknowledged the shift may have been caused partly by the decision to press commercial banks to limit lending in the July/September period. Faster than expected economic growth and a strong dollar also played a part.     In the longer run, the Central Bank is counting on a gradual upturn in the economy to draw liquidity from the financial markets into productive areas like capital spending, one Bank of Japan economist said.     But while it waits for that to occur over the next six months, it may have to avoid any overt tightening of monetary policy that could collapse the market and lead to recession.  REUTER &#3;

