18-JUN-1987 08:17:21.83

PEFCO SELLS NOTES VIA J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES

Private Export Funding Corp, PEFCO, is offering 150 mln dlrs of secured notes due 1994 with an 8.60 pct coupon and par pricing, said J.P. Morgan Securities Inc, acting as lead manager of its first corporate debt deal.     "To our knowledge, this is the first time that an affiliate of a bank holding company has been a manager of a corporate bond offering in the U.S.," a spokesman for J.P. Morgan and Co Inc said.     J.P. Morgan Securities is an affiliate of J.P. Morgan and Co, the fifth largest bank in the U.S.     The J.P. Morgan spokesman explained that because the PEFCO notes are guaranteed by the U.S. government, the securities affiliate was not prohibited by the Glass-Steagall Act from underwriting the issue.     Indeed, Bankers Trust Co and Citicorp Investment Bank, which are affiliates of Bankers Trust New York Corp and Citicorp respectively, were co-managers of the PEFCO offering.     Passed by Congress in 1933, Glass-Steagall bars commercial banks from owning brokerage firms and engaging in such investment banking activities as underwriting corporate securities or municipal revenue bonds.     Last year, several major U.S. banks formed investment banking affiliates and applied to the Federal Reserve Board for authorization to offer commercial paper and underwrite and trade municipal revenue bonds and some forms of mortgage-backed securities.     J.P. Morgan Securities received permission from the Fed several weeks ago for these activities, the spokesman said.     But the Securities Industry Association, a trade group of investment banking firms, appealed the decision. J.P. Morgan also appealed because it believed the Fed placed too many restrictions on the bank's affiliate, the spokesman said.     "The Securities and Exchange Commission got a stay, so we are not engaging in those activities," the J.P. Morgan spokesman said.     "We are perfectly eligable to underwrite this offering. We are endeavoring to prove that there is nothing mysterious about this business," the spokesman said.     He added, "Ruling off certain markets does not serve the public policy.     J.P. Morgan Securities was formed in April 1986 with capitalization of 250 mln dlrs, the spokesman said. At year-end 1986, the firm had 261.5 mln dlrs of capital.     Dillon, Read and Co Inc, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Salomon Brothers Inc also served as co-managers of the PEFCO deal.     The issue's yield was 50 basis points over comparable Treasury securities. The notes are non-callable for life. A top-flight AAA rating by Moody's and Standard and Poor's is anticipated.     The gross spread is 5.75 dlrs, the selling concession is 3.50 dlrs and the reallowance is two dlrs.     The spokesman said J.P. Morgan Securities was a member of an underwriting syndicate for a Sallie Mae issue last year.  Reuter &#3;

