 1-APR-1987 11:16:02.05

YUGOSLAVIA WINS TIME IN PARIS CLUB REFINANCING

Yugoslavia has won breathing space from its major official creditors through yesterday's Paris Club refinancing agreement but it will take time for it to resolve its economic crisis, economists at western embassies said.     Yugoslav delegation chief Finance Minister Svetozar Rikanovic said a refinancing was agreed for 475 mln dlrs of debt falling due between May 16 this year and May 31, 1988.     The agreement was the second multi-year Yugoslav debt refinancing, based on a protocol signed last May which ushered in "enhanced monitoring" of Yugoslavia's economy by the IMF.     Western economists who follow Yugoslav financial affairs said a similar deal would probably emerge from talks with commercial creditors at the end of this month. But they said the refinancings would only provide a breathing space, because Yugoslavia has to repay 5.5 billion dlrs in 1987.     And the country is still struggling to reverse a dramatic decline in export earnings, which have fallen 12.5 pct so far this year, continuing a downward spiral of the past 18 months.     The Yugoslav hard currency debt has grown from 1.2 billion dlrs in 1965 to stand at 19.7 billion dlrs at the end of 1986 and is one of the country's most dire economic problems.     The debt began to snowball in the 1960s and 1970s due to an excessive investment rate exceeding the growth of the Gross Social Product and necessitating additional foreign borrowing.     Rising international oil prices in the 1970s proved to be a serious blow to the country's balance of payments.     Deputy Prime Minister Milos Milosavljevic said this month that Yugoslavia had repaid 640 mln dlrs of principal and 325 mln dlrs of interest so far this year.     According to official Yugoslav figures, Yugoslavia repaid a record 5.97 billion dlrs in capital and interest in 1986, reducing overall indebtedness by 996 mln dlrs.     Mikulic is trying to rein in rampant retail inflation of almost 100 pct a year through price and incomes controls.     Janez Zemljaric, also a Deputy Prime Minister, said recently Yugoslavia expected a "definite measure of understanding" from its 16 major western creditor nations.     Western economists said Yugoslavia has had its way with the Paris Club creditors but that not all creditors were satisfied with its economic performance last year. They said the Paris discussions were heated and emotional.     "Economic factors were balanced by political realities," an economist at one of the main embassies here said, but added that creditors had no complaints regarding Yugoslavia's repayment record because it had so far always repaid debts on time.     Yugoslavia has refinanced its debt regularly since 1983.     In December 1985, it signed a deal with the International Coordinating Committee of 600 commercial banks to refinance maturities arising between January 1, 1985 and end-1988.     It had signed bilateral refinancing agreements in March of that year for maturities arising from January 1, 1985 to March 25, 1986, following an agreement in Paris on March 25, 1985.     Government ministers told Reuters this month that Yugoslavia had made too great an effort to repay its debts in 1986, at great cost to the economy, and that this was regretted.     Mikulic has said Yugoslavia is unlikely to follow Brazil's lead and suspend its debt repayments "but we have understanding for what that country did."     Western economists said, however, that Mikulic's remarks, taken with those of his ministers, could be a signal that some problems were seen ahead in refinancing debt repayments.     Before the Paris talks, some Yugoslav officials had hinted that Yugoslavia could start to look to the Soviet Bloc for financial support if Belgrade failed to secure the necessary refinancing from western creditors.     Sources close to the western creditors, however, said they did not view the threat as serious.  REUTER &#3;

