27-MAR-1987 14:04:26.14&#5;&#5;&#5;F

TALKING POINT/FOOD STOCKS

Fueled by an earnings-driven bull market, food stocks are emerging as the big winners, analysts say.     "This is an earnings-driven market, and the investor is homing in on stocks that have visible and predictable earnings growth," E.F. Hutton food analyst June Page said.     The food group, whose stocks have underperformed since the beginning of the year after about five years of growth, seems to have turned around, DLJ Securities analyst William Leach agreed.     The fundamentals remain favorable and may even be enhanced by the effects of tax reform for companies such as Sara Lee Corp <SLE>, Quaker Oats Co <OAT>, and General Mills Inc <GIS>, Page said. These and other food companies are recommended as aggressive buys on a selective basis by most brokerage houses surveyed.     The current economy provides an environment of stable inflation, interest rates and energy costs, which gives food companies the flexibility to expand profit margins over a period of time, Page said. Lower commodity costs allow for further price flexibility, she added.     Another plus is that increases in labor and packaging in the food industry have been minimal, she noted.     For 1987, Page said E.F. Hutton sees inflation holding under four pct, oil prices stabilizing at 17 to 18 dlrs a barrel and interest rates remaining at current levels.     As a result of new production facilities featuring sophisticated technology "companies now have a lower breakeven point because they have enhanced productivity and lower overhead costs," she said.     Unit volume growth has accelerated in the past several years in the food industry due to product segmentation, that is, iintends to file for an offering of about two mln shares within the next 30 days.     It said proceeds would be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including the possible acquisition of other businesses or additional technology.     Ashton-Tate now has about 23.6 mln shares outstanding.  Reuter &#3;

