 7-APR-1987 15:25:40.98

YEUTTER WARNS CONGRESS ON TRADE RETALIATION

U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said that if Congress were to require trade retaliation, it would only close markets and would result in less trade.     In remarks prepared for an address to members of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Yeutter said many Congressional proposals do not appear to be overtly protectionist, yet their undeniable effect would be to close off market opportunitites, just as exchange rate movement is unleashing such opportunities for the first time in several years.     "Despite all our progress on trade policy and despite the President's comprehensive competitiveness initiative, there are many in Congress who still are supporting trade bills containing many dangerous provisions," Yuetter said.     Yeutter said many countries would prefer U.S. retaliation to opening their own markets. "We should be intelligent enough to not let them off the hook that easily," he said.     He said that tough but flexible legislative language is infinitely preferable to tough but inflexible language.     Both House and Senate trade proposals place undesirable limits on Presidential discretion, he said.     "Limiting the President's ability to consider all available options on issues as sensitive as these would be most unwise," Yeutter said. "That could readily provoke retaliation, which would unneccesarily embroil us in trade wars, injuring most competitive export industries."     Yeutter said present U.S. trade laws are fundamentally sound.     President Reagan has threatened or implemented retaliation eight times in the last 18 months -- most recently in the case of Japanese semiconductors being dumped in world markets.     "He took these steps as a last resort, only after carefully analyzing all the contingencies on a case by case basis and only after determining that such actions would open markets to American exports", he said.     Yeutter said it would be foolish to attempt to solve the U.S. trade deficit by focusing on trade policy alone. He added that the trade deficit was created primarily by macroeconomic policy shortcomings here and abroad.  Reuter &#3;

