 6-MAR-1987 09:20:31.98

BRAZIL'S FUNARO WINS FEW PROMISES ON EUROPE TRIP

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro last night concluded this week's tour of European capitals having gleaned little in the way of concrete support from governments for his country's attempts to find a radical solution to its debt payments crisis.     However, banking sources noted the existence of considerable sympathy for Brazil's position among most of its commercial bank creditors, manifested in the widespread belief that adopting a hard line could only exacerbate the problems while patience might pave the way for an eventual reconciliation.     Brazil on February 20 unilaterally suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlr debt to commercial banks, followed by moves related to around 15 billion dlrs of bank and trade credit lines deposited by foreign banks and institutions.     The action had been preceded by a significant deterioration in Brazil's balance of payments situation in the final quarter of 1986, along with a marked acceleration in inflation. Reserves had dipped to below four billion dlrs.     Funaro and central bank president Francisco Gros last week visited Washington to explain Brazil's move to government officials and agencies.     This week they have sought official support in the U.K., France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy.     They have now decided to extend their tour, flying on Sunday to Tokyo to talk to government officials, with a possible visit to Canada before they return home.     Funaro and Gros have so far confined their consultations to government representatives, believing that problems with Brazil's 109 billion dlr debt call for a political solution.     However, banking sources noted that their attempts to enlist the support of European and U.S. Governments had been met almost unanimously with advice to talk first to banks.     This counsel has been coupled with emphasis on the need for Brazil to present to creditors a convincing economic programme, with U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson also recommending an accord with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), advice which Funaro subsequently rejected flatly.  Reuter &#3;

