 7-APR-1987 06:12:33.46

SINGAPORE STOCKS EXPECTED TO CONTINUE STRONG TREND

The Stock Exchange of Singapore (SES) will likely be used to raise more than 1.5 billion dlrs in 1987, continuing a long-term bullish trend that began last year when about the same amount was tapped.     Stock analysts and economists said the trend will be helped by low interest rates and the government's plan to sell 380 mln dlrs worth of shares in state enterprises each year for the next 10 years, which should attract foreign interest.     One foreign analyst said international fund managers are increasingly attracted to Asian markets like Singapore.     He said uncertainty over Hong Kong's future had helped the flow of funds to Singapore over the last eight to nine months.     Trade friction between Washington and Tokyo and the high value of the yen had also diverted a trickle of funds from Japan.     But he added, "A slight trickle will have a large impact on the local exchange."     Economists said the inflow from foreign institutions is difficult to estimate but it is increasing as the local recession bottoms out with the help of reduced corporate taxes cuts and of lower wage costs.     Tan Soo Nan, director of the Development Bank of Singapore Securities Ltd and a member of the exchange, said he expects Singapore companies alone to tap around one billion dlrs this year, but he warned there were some short-term risks.     Corporate earnings in fiscal 1987 ending March fell short of an expected 20 pct increase over 1986 and a major failure would dampen sentiment, he said. He added the SES should admit only companies able to sustain their earnings levels.     But one foreign analyst said any slowing of activity would be temporary and many investors are waiting for the results of elections in Malaysia later this month.     On the whole, Tan said, the long-term trend remains bullish because of the economic recovery, the high growth potential for the Asian Pacific region and the liberalisation of the Toyko financial market.     Tan said the introduction of the Stock Exchange of Singapore Dealing and Quotation System in January and the new government securities market was in keeping with the global trend towards debt securitisation and financial deregulation.     Singapore's economic recovery will be more broad-based in 1987 and the exchange's strategy should be to build up expertise in risk and fund management, he said.  REUTER &#3;

