16-MAR-1987 12:30:22.01

FDA PANEL BACKS UPJOHN <UPJ> BALDNESS DRUG

The federal Food and Drug Administration's Dermatologic Drugs Advisory Committee voted unanimously that Upjohn Co's Rogaine baldness drug was safe and effective.     The panel recommended that the FDA approve Rogaine for marketing in the United States, so long as accompanying packaging and promotional materials disclose that the product has only limited effect on male pattern baldness.     The five outside experts attending today's FDA committee meeting seemed less concerned about Rogaine's safety after an outside consultant told them the drug "appears to be quite safe in the normal male population."     The consultant, Ohio State University Professor of Medicine Carl Leier, said Rogaine's side effects were minimal, based on a study of 10,000 individuals who have been getting the drug in Canada, where it was approved for marketing last year.     "The Canadian record is quite a good one in terms of side effects," Leier said.     The experts urged the FDA to require a warning in the drug's packaging that patients be monitored for heart effects while taking the drug, such as irregular heart beats, changes in heart rate, palpitations and fluid retention in the body.     Rogaine, whose chemical name is minoxidil, has already been approved by the FDA when taken orally as a high blood pressure drug.     But Upjohn is now seeking agency approval of it as a male baldness treatment when put directly on the skin in liquid form.     Upjohn has previously claimed that, when applied to the scalp, too little of Rogaine was absorbed into the bloodstream to affect the heart.     But panel members concluded that the amount absorbed merited physician monitoring of patients taking the drug.     Under questioning by panel members, Upjohn official Richard De Villez acknowledged the drug in clinical trials produced moderate hair growth on the crown of the head in only about 40 pct after 12 months.     He also acknowledged discontinuing treatment would make the new hair fall out.     "The Upjohn problem is that they have a tremendous placebo effect," panel member Paul Bergstresser of the University of Texas told the meeting.     He said patients administered a placebo during clinical trials typically had about half as much new hair growth as did individuals treated with Rogaine.     As a result, it may take patients eight-12 months before they can tell whether thay are benefiting from the drug, he said.     In Canada, a year's treatment costs about 550-640 dlrs (U.S.).     An Upjohn official said no price would be set for the drug in the U.S. market until it was approved for sale.     During trials, the drug was found to have a bizarre side effect on some individuals: It caused a state of sexual dysfunction known as "exagerrated erection."     Stewart Ehrreich, a former FDA official who conducted a safety review of Rogaine before leaving the agency, said researchers had found a number of cases of patients who had exagerrated erections as a result of the drug.     He said this was a common effect for drugs of the same class as Rogaine, called vaso-dilators.     FDA officials said they could make no prediction on when Rogaine might be approved for marketing.     Following the vote, panel member Dr. Robert Stern, a Boston dermatologist, said Upjohn statistics had exaggerated the effect of the drug.     He said "about one in five will have a substantial clinical effect," which he defined as a significant growth of new hair that made the patient actually look better.     He urged insurance companies not to cover the cost of Rogaine treatment in order to preserve scarce medical fund resources.     "I would hope that insurance companies will take a strong line that this is not a product we will reimburse for," Stern told reporters.     "I think this is a drug that has some application for some people, and I think some people will find it worth the expense," he said.     But he said individuals should be required to pay for the treatment out of their personal funds.     Stern estimated more than 100,000 American men are already using minoxidil on their scalps, outside the law, by grinding up the blood pressure pill and dissolving in a solvent.  Reuter &#3;

