20-OCT-1987 04:25:26.49

JAPAN TRIES TO STEM STOCKS DIVE

Government and monetary authorities today staged a concerted effort to calm spreading panic on Japanese stock exchanges but market analysts said there were limits to their ability to succeed.     "The ability of the Big Four (Japanese securities houses) and the Finance Ministry is limited," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Peter Morgan.     Finance Ministry officials asked the big four securities companies this afternoon to help calm panic selling on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, ministry officials said.     Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying he was watching the stock market situation.     But he rejected comparisons with the 1929 stock market collapse and subsequent recession.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Tokyo stock market should not be gravely affected by downturns in New York and London because there are clear signs of a Japanese economic recovery and exchange rate stability.     Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita also tried to calm the panic, saying in a statement that world stock markets were excessively concerned about the economic future.     Traditionally, the four big houses  -- Nomura Securities Co Ltd, Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd, and Nikko Securities Co Ltd -- have influenced the market because of their sheer size and overwhelming market share.     This strength has in the past made it possible for the brokerages to calm down markets under guidance from the Finance Ministry, analysts said.     But the analysts questioned whether the brokerages, which have already suffered heavy losses from falling bond markets over the past year, would have the strength this time to turn things around.     "The question is, are the Japanese brokerages strong enough to force investors to buy," said Johsen Takahashi, research director at the Mitsubishi Research Institute.     "If we consider that they have suffered serious losses in the bond markets and in their U.S. Investments, it is debatable whether they they could support buying," he said.     "We can support things to some extent, but we can't completely suppress selling," said one Japanese broker.     Some analysts said the high percentage of shares cross-held by financial institutions and other corporations could have a stabilising effect on the market.     Some 80 pct of shares are held by corporate shareholders, said Keikichi Honda, general manager of the Bank of Tokyo Ltd's economic research division. "This is a tightly woven textile. In its own way it is stronger than Wall Street."     But other analysts expressed doubt about this argument.     "If a high percent of shares is cross held, everything happens at the edges and the relative moves can be larger," said Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. "Selling will drive prices down an enormous distance because of no liquidity."     "You don't need big volume to get big declines in the market -- you just need a huge imbalance between sellers and buyers," said Barclay's Morgan.     Shares held by what are termed "stable shareholders," or banks and other companies with which a firm does business, might also find their way onto the market if the outlook gets bad enough, some analsyst said.     "Closely held shares could become unclosely held," said Morgan. But he said such a prospect is unlikely right now because companies, with their improved earnings prospects, do not need to sell shares for cash flow reasons.  REUTER &#3;

