 8-APR-1987 06:08:50.43

JAPANESE ECONOMIC PACKAGE SEEN AS MAJOR CHANGE

The economic package unveiled yesterday by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) marks the start of a major shift away from the policies of the past, private economists and government officials said.     "A big step forward has been taken," said Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd senior economist Susumu Taketomi.     The package, seen as a response to mounting overseas pressure to boost the sagging Japanese economy, calls for a supplementary budget of more than 5,000 billion yen later this year, plus increased imports.     Although the measures must still gain the approval of the Finance Ministry, economists said the government will find it too difficult to alter the measures significantly once they have gained domestic and overseas backing.     "At last, the LDP and the Ministry of Finance are turning a corner," said Sumitomo Bank Ltd's chief economist Masahiko Koido.     For the past five years the government has adhered to a tight fiscal policy in its drive to stop issuing deficit financing bonds in 1990.     To meet that goal, spending departments are required to submit annual budgets for current expenditure 10 pct below the previous year and investment five pct below.     Masayoshi Ito, chairman of the LDP's policy affairs council, said yesterday the government must stick to its 1990 fiscal reform target, but should review the ceiling it places on public works spending.     Even some Finance Ministry officials privately acknowledge that policy changes might be needed, including easing the government's iron grip on spending.     Economists said the government could meet its 1990 target and also increase spending by using money it got from the sale of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp shares and by taking advantage of lower than expected interest rates on its debt. Officially, the Finance Ministry is adhering to its tight stance but some signs of change have appeared.     "We do not have any intention of abandoning our objective to restore fiscal balance," a Finance Ministry spokesman said.     He said so far the ministry had tried to achieve two goals simultaneously. These were reforming the government's fiscal position and stimulating domestic demand.     But the Finance Ministry spokesman added, "In looking at the current situation of the economy and the relationship between Japan and the United States, we feel we have to place more emphasis on stimulating demand."     Economists predict battles within the government over the coming months as the Finance Ministry fights to ensure the cracks in its policy do not lead to a complete breakdown of fiscal discipline.     "The Ministry is afraid that once there is a small hole in the dike, it will lead to a flood," Industrial Bank's Taketomi said.     But Taketomi said the ministry, provided it has a device in place to check excess spending for political reasons, is likely to give the go-ahead to a shift in policy.     "This seems to mark the first step toward a more active fiscal policy in response to requests from the international community," he said.     Sumitomo's Koido said if the government quickly implements the LDP's 5,000 billion yen package, economic growth in the 1987/88 year ending next March 31 could be around three pct, His current forecast of 2.2 pct growth assumes a supplementary budget of around 1,000 billion yen.  REUTER &#3;

