26-MAR-1987 16:53:40.64

FARM CREDIT AID SEEN BROADENED TO OTHER LENDERS

Farm-state senators indicated they may broaden a Farm Credit System rescue package to include aid for borrowers from private lenders such as commercial banks, as well as the farm credit system.     Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., chairman of the Senate Agriculture subcommittee responsible for farm credit, said legislation to rescue the financially-troubled system should provide help to borrowers from all lenders to agriculture.     "We must provide some form of interest rate buydown, principal reduction relief for all eligible farmers and ranchers regardless of their lending institution," Boren said.     Boren's statement received bipartisan support from Sen. James McClure, R-Idaho, who agreed that the aid package should cover all lenders to agriculture.     The comments by Senators of both parties, plus endorsements for the across-the-board approach from the nation's largest farm organization, the American Farm Bureau Federation, and from the system itself, appeared to significantly broaden the focus of the rescue legislation for the farm credit system. Until now, agriculture officials had focused exclusively on how to resurrect the failing system.     Boren said borrowers from private lenders such as commercial banks and life insurance companies must be included in the aid package because "it would not be fair to address only the problems of Farm Credit System borrowers."     However, Boren and other proponents of an across-the-board interest rate or principal buydown did not say how much the broad approach would cost.     But Neil Harl, professor of economics at Iowa State University told the hearing the cost could be in the range of 3.5 billion dlrs annually.     By trying to draw into the farm credit rescue package all farm borrowers, Boren and other Senators appeared to be reacting to pressure from private lenders and their borrowers, who fear they will be put at a competitive disadvantage by the government rescue of the farm credit system and its borrowers.     The farm credit system is the nation's largest lender to agriculture with 39 pct of all farm real estate loans, but private lenders account for nearly a quarter of loans on farmland and 34 pct of farm operating loans, official figures show.     The American Bankers Association, in testimony to the hearing, warned the farm credit rescue should not be structured to favor the system over other lenders.     As one way to meet the concern of private lenders, several Senators, the farm credit system, and farm organizations endorsed creation of a secondary market on farm real estate loans, called "aggie mae", which is sought by private lenders.     "We are also exploring the possibility of including in the farm credit bill, the establishment of a secondary market for agricultural loans that would be available to all lenders," Sen. Boren said.  Reuter &#3;

