29-JUN-1987 05:38:10.90

ZIMBABWE WAGE FREEZE SHOWS ECONOMIC MALAISE

Zimbabwe's temporary freeze on salaries, wages and prices will give the economy a breather, but radical economic reforms are needed to resuscitate business and attract foreign investment, economists said.     They said the June 24 freeze on government, state company and private sector wages until January 1988 has postponed, rather than provided, solutions to Zimbabwe's economic problems.     They urged a review of the tax system, the introduction of investment incentives, a review of foreign exchange and price controls and a check on government expenditure.     These measures would aim to stimulate investment and create employment for the 100,000 school leavers annually seeking jobs.     The freeze, which Finance Minister Bernard Chidzero said would check production costs and reduce the budget deficit, has been partly welcomed by business but criticised by workers whose real purchasing power has been severely eroded since 1980.     The government announced the freeze amid a worsening economic crisis caused by serious drought, a budget deficit of more than one billion Zimbabwean dlrs and an acute balance of payments problem owing to debt service costs, now 357 mln U.S. Dlrs on an external debt of two billion U.S. Dlrs.     The crisis has forced the country to make companies halve dividend remittances to overseas shareholders.     The Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce supported the freeze on wages and salaries but criticised the promised stricter control of prices of goods and services.     "If those companies whose costs of production increase are not allowed a price increase, profit margins will again be severely squeezed, and this would negate current government efforts to revitalise the economy," the chamber said.     The Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions said the freeze would worsen the plight of the lowest paid workers.     The union body has been campaigning for a minimum monthly wage of 277 Zimbabwean dlrs (165 U.S. Dlrs). The lowest paid now earn about 100 dollars (60 U.S. Dlrs).     "Inflation is hitting hardest those in the low income bracket which demands that any economic recovery programme should be biased in their favour," the union body said.     It added that the promised price freeze was "bolting the stable door when in fact the horse is gone" because prices of most basic commodities had already risen phenomenally.     Both unions and business hope that the freeze heralds a return to wage bargaining between workers and employers, rather than government-regulated pay awards.     Zimbabwe has, since 1980, set annual minimum wages for different sectors of the economy and awarded wage and salary increments on a sliding scale which gave higher increases to the lowest paid.  REUTER &#3;

