25-MAR-1987 17:55:39.11

CATTLEMEN ASSESSING DEATH LOSS FROM STORM

Blizzard conditions in parts of the west and southwest U.S. severely stressed beef cattle and Kansas cattlemen are reporting death losses from the storm, according to livestock associations in the area.     Talk among futures traders that cattle had died from the cold and blowing snow accounted for some of the strength in Live Cattle futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange today.     "Death (of cattle) can be directly attributed to the storm, but it's hard to get a handle on a number," Todd Domer, director of communications for the Kansas Livestock Association said.     Domer noted that limited reports have been filtering in of death losses at feedyards and from grazing and cow/calf operations. Western Kansas was hardest hit while Eastern Kansas only had rain, he said.     Paul Johnston of the Nebraska Livestock Feeders Association said, "There's no question that baby calves coming in that kind of blizzard are probably not going to make it."     We were having such a nice winter and the cows were out calving before the storm hit, he added.     The worst part of the storm came through the center of the state. Precipitation was generally in the form of wet snow and some feedlots are already like "soup", he said, inhibiting cattle movements.     The storm also had an effect on weight gain of larger animals. Drifting snow caused problems in moving feed and mud made it hard for cattle to reach the feed once it was available.     Domer noted that feedyards sources say a tremendous cutback has occurred in feed consumption by cattle in the yards, which may or may not lead to sickness over the next several days. Cattle reduced daily feed consumption to about 12 lbs from 25 during the worst of the blizzard, he said.     Mud will be more a problem as the weather breaks and snow melts. Mud adds to stress on full-grown animals and endangers smaller ones which can fall and be trampled in pens. The cost of feeding rises as animals generally consume more in cold weather, Domer said.     Domer said it will be at least 10 days before yards get back to normal.     Roy Gallant, from Accu Weather Services, said that although the worst of the storm is over, there are still some strong gusty winds which will not diminish until tonight.     The storm started late Sunday night in West Kansas and is just now winding down. The storm has moved into South Dakota, parts of Minnesota and Eastern North Dakota, he said.     Snow accumulations from the storm totaled six to 10 inches in most sections and 12 to 18 in a few spots before moving north. This equals 1/2 to 1-1/2 inches of water. Drifts of four to six feet and up to 12 feet were reported, he said.     There's a possibility of another storm brushing that region tomorrow night and Friday, Gallant added.  Reuter &#3;

