17-MAR-1987 08:57:16.34

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. BANKING REGULATION

U.S. banks are under pressure to meet vigorous competition, but Congress continues to duck hard choices on banking law reform that could benefit consumers.     Supporters say deregulating banking will increase competition, offer consumers more choices and bring lower fees for financial services and home mortgage interest rates.     But the Senate Banking Committee last week put off until later in the year decisions on pressing issues such as whether banks could enter new businesses like underwriting corporate debt and selling insurance and real estate.     The committee also reined in banks' competitors, the so-called nonbank banks, which elude the technical definition of a bank because they do not both accept deposits and make loans. The committee meeting room became a battleground for giants of the financial industry -- banks, brokerages, insurance firms, retail and industrial corporations -- with but little consideration given to the consumer.     The lobbies backed various amendments to protect their turf and a bill that rescues a federal deposit insurance fund for thrift institutions and puts a moratorium on any changes in banking law was passed and sent on to the full Senate.     The House of Representatives has yet to act.     Behind the political deals was the larger question whether Congress would end or modify the half-century-old separation of commercial and investment banking or leave it alone.     One argument in support of change is that fees for financial services would come down if Congress expands banks' powers.     Lower fees to underwrite mortgage-backed securities, for example, could lead to lower interest rates on home mortgages, supporters say.     "A lot of nonbanking firms have used loopholes to get into banking, but banks have not be allowed into any new businesses," says Robert Litan of the Brookings Institution.     "We have been seeing a gigantic turf war," says Litan, who favors new powers for banks if deposits are safeguarded.     The swirl of corporate mergers and the financial information explosion have blurred the distinction between the activities of banks and security brokerages.     On a wider horizon, U.S. financial institutions face stepped-up competition from financial centers like London and Tokyo in international transactions.     West German and Japanese banking is more concentrated in a few, large banks, while most European countries allow banking and securities to be mixed.     All these forces put pressure on U.S. financial firms to adapt to change, but the congressional debate over reform drags on. The committee's bill put a freeze on any changes and its chairman, Senator William Proxmire, promised to return the issues in October. If approved by Congress, the bill would postpone applications before the Federal Reserve for new powers to three of the largest banks -- Citicorp, J.P. Morgan and Bankers Trust.     Other industries where regulatory barriers have fallen have experienced lower fees, the emergence of new players and accelerated innovation.     But these advances in airlines, trucking, and telecommunications have not been without drawbacks. Companies that were slow to adapt disappeared under the new competitive regime, while the public faced a bewildering number of new choices. The Reagan administration favors bank reform.     The traditional method companies use to raise funds -- borrowing from banks -- has given way to selling corporate debt and other new securities that are off limits to banks.     But critics say the soundness of the banking system created by such laws as the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act would be undermined.     Banks are treated as special and shielded from the marketplace's vagaries by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp (FSLIC) performs the same function for thrifts.     The one issue the committee did act on which benefits consumers is new funding for the federal insurance fund for deposits at savings and loan associations, which has fallen to its lowest ratio of reserves to deposits in history.     Despite efforts toward change in Congress, a ban on interstate banking remains.     The barriers are crumbling anyway because state legislatures are agreeing to permit bank mergers across state lines within a region.     Congress is proceeding cautiously, having in mind the banking industry's tribulations in the early 1930's.     But some say it is moving too cautiously for banks to keep pace with what is happening in business here and around the world.  Reuter &#3;

