 3-APR-1987 05:22:22.73

REAGAN'S STRENGTH IN U.S. CONGRESS APPEARS SAPPED

President Reagan's reduced strength in Congress has been demonstrated by the U.S. Senate's decision to approve a highway spending bill despite his attempts to veto it, political analysts said.     "He's very weakened," said William Schneider of the private American Enterprise public policy group after the Senate voted 67-33 yesterday to ignore Reagan's veto of the road bill.     Schneider contrasted Reagan's failure with his previous ability to win clear majorities on major issues.     Sustaining his veto required him to win just one-third of the votes in either house of Congress.     It was the third consecutive fight over a presidential veto on which Congress had defied Reagan, whose clout with the legislature has been greatly diminished by the arms-for-Iran scandal and the capture of a majority in the Senate by the opposition Democratic party in the November 1986 election.     Congress overrode Reagan's veto of a popular water projects bill in January and last autumn Congress rejected his veto of economic sanctions against South Africa.     But this time the president laid his full authority on the line, even making a rare journey to Capitol Hill to plead for support in person.     With both the House and Senate in Democratic hands, analysts say Reagan is swiftly becoming a lame duck, facing difficulties in enacting his own legislative agenda, especially given the furore over the Iran arms deal.     The situation contrasts with Reagan's first six years in office when a Republican-controlled Senate and the backing of conservative Democrats in the House enabled Reagan to win passage of most of his legislative priorities.     Reagan's ability to veto legislation he dislikes had been his strongest weapon in dealing with Congress, but his defeat on the highway bill was expected to reduce the credibility of his veto power.     Senator John Chafee, a Rhode Island Republican, told the New York Times earlier this week that if Reagan lost "there will be no brake on -- if you suggest a presidential veto you will be laughed away."     Yesterday's defeat came two days after the House of Representatives' overwhelming rejection of a presidential veto on the highways bill by 350 votes to 73.     White House strategists had presented the veto fight as a test of Reagan's strength as he attempted to recover from the scandal over secret arms sales to Iran.     Senate Republican leader Robert Dole of Kansas pleaded with fellow party members to back Reagan because "this may determine the strength of the presidency for the next 21 months."     The defeat showed the problems facing any president in his final years in office. Reagan's term expires in January 1989.     A majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives and 13 in the Senate apparently decided their own political concerns have become more important than the president's.     "President Reagan, he ain't going to be running in 1988, but I am," Congressman Arthur Ravenel, a South Carolina Republican, said on Tuesday of his decision to back a bill that means money and jobs for his home district in new highway construction.     The defeat interrupted a good streak for Reagan, who won applause for his selection in February of former Senate majority leader Howard Baker to replace Donald Regan as White House chief of staff, and was believed by most political analysts to have benefitted from a televised speech and a news conference on the Iran affair last month.     A steady drop in Reagan's job approval ratings appeared to level off in recent weeks. The president slumped from about 65 pct last autumn to about 42 pct after the Tower Commission report in February said he had failed to exercise proper control over the dealings with Iran.     His approval rating hovers at 50 pct.     Reagan said he was deeply disappointed by the Senate defeat but "my efforts to control spending are not diminished."     Democratic leader Robert Byrd said "this isn't going to make or break the president."  REUTER &#3;

