24-MAR-1987 13:13:51.34

ATT <T> FORMS COMPUTER SALES GROUPS

American Telephone and Telegraph Co said it formed a 600-member sales force dedicated exclusively to its computers and other data systems products.     Separately, ATT denied reports that it plans to buy back a large chunk of its stock. ATT's stock was up 1/4 points at 25-1/8 in heavy trading.     The company said it also created a separate 600-member team that will educate the computer sales force and its other sales groups on ATT's computer products. This group, ATT said, reports directly to Vittorio Cassoni, senior vice president of its computer unit, called the Data Systems division.     Cassoni, speaking at a news conference at which ATT unveiled its most powerful mid-range computer, said the sales groups will provide a "sharper focus" to ATT's computer marketing efforts.     The executive, hired from Olivetti to bolster ATT's unsuccessful campaign to become a major vendor of computer gear, also said the company is committed to its 3B line of mid-range computers. He said ATT backed the 3B line despite widespread criticism throughout the industry that it is inferior to mid-range systems made by International Business Machines Corp <IBM>, Digital Equipment Corp <DEC> and others.     Cassoni, however, said ATT would strenghten the 3B line within the next three or four months. He said ATT will offer new, more powerful mid-range computers that will protect the investments of existing 3B users in ATT hardware and software.     In justifying the company's commitment to the 3B line, which was originally developed for internal use by ATT and its former Bell telephone company units, Cassoni pointed to several recent sales that he said proved the mid-range line's commercial viability.     One example he provided was a recent 34 mln dlr deal ATT signed with the United States Postal Service.     Cassoni also said ATT will announce a new personal computer based on the powerful 80386 microprocessor from Intel Corp <INTC>.    Compaq Computer Corp <CPQ> is already selling a 386-based PC and IBM is widely expected to announce a 386 machine sometime this year.    Cassoni said the Data Systems division is unprofitable and that it will take "a couple of years" for the division to meet its goal of making a "substantial contribution to ATT's earnings stream." But, he added, the division is "approaching" the point where it can start making money.     Cassoni said the new products introduced today are "a very significant step to foster our efforts in the computer business."     Among the new offerings is the 3B2/600 minicomputer, which ATT said can provide up to four times the processing power of the 3B2/400, previously its biggest computer.     But with a top speed of 4.0 mips, or million instructions per second, the top-of-line 3B cannot match the computing power of rival systems from IBM and DEC.  Reuter &#3;

