19-OCT-1987 01:14:35.36

COMPETITION TOUGHENS FOR NEAR-SUPERCOMPUTERS

An announcement by Alliant Computer Systems Inc <ALNT> of a new low-end near-supercomputer and <ETA Systems Inc>'s unveiling of a high-end machine in the same category show competition is stiff in this market, industry analysts said.      Consultants said Alliant's new FX computer, aimed mainly at scientists and researchers will be priced between 100,000 and 200,000 dlrs and will be faster than anything else in that price range. But they said Alliant is trying to bring prices in line with discounts it now gives many of its customers.     "(The new FX) is significant to the extent that it represents Alliant's recognition of the reality of the marketplace," said a source who was briefed by Alliant on the new computer. "The list price is more in line with what they are seeing anyway."     Near-supercomputers, often called mini-supercomputers, resemble the massive supercomputers favoured by scientists but are much less expensive and a quarter as powerful.     Supercomputers cost well over one mln dlrs but mini-supercomputers are generally priced between 200,000 dlrs and one mln dlrs.     Most near-supercomputers use a new computer architecture called parallel processing, in which a problem is broken up into segments and each segment assigned to a different processor. General-purpose mainframe computers have just one processor that works on one segment of a problem at a time, making them too slow for complex scientific problems.     Near-supercomputers have been in existence for only about five years and the two leading manufacturers, Alliant and Convex Computer Corp (CNVX), held two of the most successful initial public offerings last year.     But Alliant and Convex, a Texas company, are also facing some 15 companies competing for between 200 and 250 mln dlrs in sales this year, and the result has been lower prices and shrinking profit margins.     Heavy discounting, slow acceptance outside the scientific market, lack of software and too many competitors also have made analysts reassess prospects for near-supercomputers.     Jeffrey Canin, computer analyst with Hambrecht and Quist, said he just added a year to his original growth estimates for the industry. He now expects sales to reach 1.1 billion dlrs in 1991, instead of 1990.     In recent weeks both Alliant and Convex have said their third quarter earnings would be reduced by "competitive pricing pressures."     Alliant said profits for the period will be about five cents a share against eight cents last year, although revenues for the period rose to 14.2 mln dlrs from 8.6 mln.     Convex said third quarter earnings will be less than the second quarter's 12 cents a share while revenues will rise almost eight mln dlrs over the 1986 third quarter to between 18 and 18.5 mln dlrs.     Until now, most of the price discounting occurred at the bottom of the product line in near-supercomputers, but ETA System's announcement could start squeezing Convex and Alliant from the top, analysts said.     ETA, a subsidiary of Control Data Corp <CDC>, introduced two machines that are really full-blown supercomputers similar to those sold by Cray Research Inc, the world's biggest supercomputer maker, but at half the price of Cray's cheapest model. The ETA-10 Model P costs 995,000 dlrs and the Model Q is 1.2 mln dlrs.     ETA officials told a news conference the new machines may be classified as supercomputers but they are aimed directly at the upper end of the product lines from Alliant and Convex.     Acceptance of ETA's product could be hampered by lack of software, analysts said, noting this is an issue that faces all parallel processor makers to some degree.     Because parallel processing is a new architecture that has yet to be widely used, third party software vendors have been slow to write programs for the near-supercomputers.     ETA, however, "offers a low priced entry into supercomputers for some customers," one consultant said.     Canin cautioned that "the price pressures will continue for some time" and estimated that five percentage points have been knocked off the gross profit margins of both Convex and Alliant this year by price discounting.     Next year, he said, the two companies will face a new set of problems as they both introduce their second generation of products. "I am always cautious about the first major product transition."  REUTER &#3;

