13-MAR-1987 05:13:44.43

TAX REVENUES BOOST U.K. BUDGET OPTIONS

A mix of electoral boldness and fiscal caution is expected from Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson next week when he unveils his budget for fiscal 1987/88.     Exceptionally robust tax revenues have given Lawson very favourable budget options with which to please voters, industry and financial markets alike.     The budget will Lawson's fourth, and probably the last from the Conservative government before the next general election, political analysts say.     Analysts said the major budget question is how Lawson will balance expected tax cuts with lower public borrowing, and allow for fresh falls in U.K. Interest rates.     They said a boost given to the economy by consumer spending has helped reduce the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) for financial 1986/87 from an originally targetted 7.1 billion stg, despite big rises in government spending.     Economists say Lawson may have up to five billion stg to split between income tax cuts and other electoral "sweeteners," higher spending and a drop in borrowing, while still meeting his earlier 1987/88 PSBR target of 7.0 billion stg.     The decision facing Lawson is how best to use that so-called "fiscal adjustement" to maximise the government's all-round popularity ahead of the next general election.     Economist Ian Harwood of Warburg Securities said Lawson's budget must strike a balance between tax cuts aimed at home consumption and lower public borrowing for attracting support from overseas investors.     Peter Fellner of James Capel and Co said "a budget which concentrates on tax cuts for the consumer will be a budget for an early election."     Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher must call a poll before June, 1988. But anticipation of a summer or autumn 1987 ballot has risen as the opposition Labour Party has slipped in voter surveys. Forecasts that the economy may deteriorate later this year add to arguments for an early poll, analysts say.     The Conservatives have pledged to cut the basic rate of taxation in the U.K. From the current 29 pct level to 25 pct.     While confirming that aim, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher last month seemed to dash speculation that that would happen in the near future. She said in a television interview that it would happen "Eventually. But I think it will be eventually."     Most market analysts now expect a two-pence reduction in the basic rate of taxation and a lowering in of the top rate of income tax from 60 pct.     A one billion stg cut in the 1987/88 PSBR - to six billion stg - is considered the minimum needed for reassuring financial markets, they add.     The Treasury's inflow of tax receipts has far surpassed that previously envisaged, economists say. Lawson as recently as December 17 said that "I very much doubt whether there will be much scope for reductions in taxation in next year's budget."     The Conservative government is eager to get the basic rate of tax down to 25 pct as soon as possible, since every pound off the tax base would make the opposition Labour Party's spending plans look more painful to the electorate, analysts say.     The direct revenue effect of a one penny change in the basic rate of income tax would be about 1.1 billion stg in 1987/88 and 1.45 billion stg in 1988/89, Treasury figures show.     Lawson's budget speech to Parliament on Tuesday starts at 1530 GMT, and is sure to echo the government's distinct tone of optimism, analysts say.      The tax measures which Lawson is expected to announce will be based firmly on a positive assessment of past economic achievements and confidence for the future, they add.     But even if he does cut his planned PSBR for 1987/88 by between one and 1.5 billion stg, as most economists predict, Lawson is still likely to find himself announcing a higher PSBR than the outturn for this financial year.^M     That could leave him with a presentation problem, economists say.     A lower PSBR would raise financial confidence by reassuring markets that the borrowing burden imposed by the government would stay low even if certain key aspects of the budget's arithmetic seem over-optimistic, economists say     Lawson is slated to reaffirm the government's goals, as set out in its Medium Term Financial Strategy (MTFS), of reducing inflation and raising economic growth.     Regarding monetary targets, some analysts expect him to drop the wayward broad money aggregate, sterling M-3, while retaining the tamer M0 narrow measure. Few foresee any other monetary aggregate being chosen by Lawson for formal targeting.     Analysts were surprised this week when the government sanctioned a half percentage point cut in interest rates, in an attempt to cool down sterling and the gilts market. Analysts had expected the authorities to wait until after the budget.     Further declines in bank base lending rates are anticipated after the budget. Many analysts foresee them falling by as much as a full percentage point from the current 10.5 pct level.     The main electoral attraction of reducing interest rates is to cut mortgage borrowing costs, and thus reduce inflation, analysts say. Each one percentage point cut in the mortgage rate reduces retail prices by 0.4 pct, government figures show.  REUTER &#3;

