29-JUN-1987 05:43:41.38

BANKS IN SINGAPORE SET TO INCREASE SECURITISATION

Banks in Singapore are planning to further expand their treasury, securities, equities and debt instruments activities in line with global financial markets, bankers and economists told Reuters.     "Banks are moving towards treasury activities because they see them as a vital link in global capital and foreign exchange markets," Clemente Escano, vice-president of Union Bank of Switzerland, said.     Central to that link is the Asian Dollar Market's pool of funds, with deposits estimated at 212 billion dlrs in March.     Banks are fond of booking and tapping offshore Asian Dollar Market funds here for a variety of reasons, including low taxes.     New impetus has come to this market with growth of 52 billion dlrs in the year to March partly due to the liberalisation of financial markets in Japan leading to an increase in interbank activity, bankers said.     Despite the slowdown in traditional loan syndications in the region, the offshore market has continued to grow as banks rebundle and securitise their assets, creating new generations of tradeable debt instruments, bankers said.     Singapore's daily turnover in foreign exchange dealing has increased to 30 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1987 against 21 billion last year, according to Finance Minister Richard Hu.     Susumu Sakaguchi, manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, said the 22 Japanese banks in Singapore were expanding their foreign exchange departments, which accounted for at least 30 to 40 pct of total bank activities last year.     Sakaguchi said the liberalisation of the Toyko market stimulated Asian Dollar deposits and foreign exchange turnover and is leading to active Japanese futures trading on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange.     Robin Tomlin, managing director of Singapore International Merchant Bankers Ltd, said international merchant banks cluster in Singapore because of the tax incentives, presence of major players and shift in regional capital flows.     Tomlin pegged much of the future of the Singapore banking industry to securities and equities.     "In 1988 we should see an expansion of securities trading following the link-up" of the Stock Exchange of Singapore Dealing and Automated Quotation System (SESDAQ) with the London exchange and the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ), he said.     Equity and equity-linked issues have dominated the financial markets here to date because of buoyant domestic and international stock markets. Tomlin said privatisation programmes, both in Singapore and abroad, would encourage huge flows of capital through the banks.     Applications received for the 30 mln Singapore Airline shares offered last week were worth 601.1 mln Singapore dlrs. The share offer by Sembawang Maritime Ltd raked in a record 6.8 billion Singapore dlrs in May this year.     Bankers said Singapore's privatisations and links with exchanges abroad showed its determined international stance.     Singapore's four major local banks have been venturing into stockbroking, the new government securities market and SESDAQ, competing successfully for business with the merchant banks.     Tomlin said merchant banks will continue to play an important role in the Singapore domestic capital markets but the modest size of the total market would limit the potential of new entrants.     Bankers said a total of 650 mln U.S. Dlrs was raised in the Singapore capital market last year and the volume of new issues would to grow in 1987.     Total lending by banks in Singapore fell by 1.04 billion dlrs in March 1987 compared with last year following the trend towards asset management services and other capital market activities.     Hans-Rudolf Schaub, the senior vice-president and manager of Swiss Bank Corp, said his bank has chosen Singapore as its Asian treasury centre because of favourable tax rules for offshore banks, political stability and economic growth.     He said the bank might set up a securities portfolio management service here in addition to its existing links in international money market services with Zurich and New York.  REUTER &#3;

