16-MAR-1987 08:44:08.78

TALKING POINT/EASTERN AIRLINES <TEX>

A rash of firings, fears of mass layoffs and management overtures for wage concessions have set the stage for all-out war between Eastern Airlines and its unions, analysts and labor leaders say.     The bitter labor-management dispute has hurt efforts to revive the ailing carrier and could ultimately lead Texas Air, Eastern's new owner, to tranfer scores of Eastern jets to its non-union sister airlines, analysts said.     "It's a trump card that Texas Air could resort to if things get bad enough -- repainting Eastern planes and shifting them over Continental Airlines," said Louis Marckesano, an analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott Inc of Philadelphia.     Eastern lost 130.8 mln dlrs in 1986, and analysts see little chance of the carrier returning to profitability this year.     Since the Miami-based carrier was taken over by Texas Air last year, the morale of Eastern's 38,000 employees has plummeted, workers and labor leaders say.     Some Eastern officials acknowledge privately that morale problems have contributed to high absenteeism and a decline in customer service, triggering a barrage of passenger complaints.     Union leaders are accusing Eastern's managers -- many of them newly installed by Texas Air chairman Frank Lorenzo -- of conducting a campaign of harassment and intimidation aimed at ridding the airline of high-paid, senior employees.     "It's an underhanded way of forcing experienced people out in an attempt to cut the company's labor costs," said Nancy Tauss, vice president of the Transport Workers Union Local 553.     Some flight attendants complain that they are being stalked by what they call "spyriders" -- teams of auditors they say have been hired by Lorenzo to fly on Eastern jets and secretly examine flight crew performance.     Since the beginning of the year, at least a dozen flight attendants have been fired as a result of such audits, some for having as little as two dlrs missing from liquor sales and movie headset rentals, Tauss said.     Eastern officials acknowledge that management is tightening its accounting procedures and cracking down on absenteeism, which the airline says cost 70 mln dlrs last year -- the  highest in the industry.     But Eastern spokeman Jim Ashlock denied that the Miami-base airline was using unfair labor tactics. "We're just trying to correct long-standing problems and that causes some dissatisfaction," he said.     U.S. Rep. Newt Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, has met with groups of dissident Eastern employees in Atlanta and is reported to have told them he may call for hearings on the airline's labor tactics.     Labor and management have a long history of bitter relations at Eastern Airlines.     But the conflict has escalated sharply since January 21, when Eastern president Philip Bakes called for a reduction of 490 mln dlrs, or 29 pct, in annual labor costs, mostly through union concessions.     Eastern's three principal unions have rejected demands for wage cuts and have refused to open their contracts for renegotiation.     Union officials say that in retaliation for their resistance, the airline has launched a "firing frenzy" aimed at intimidating employees and squeezing concessions from labor.     During 1986 -- the year in which Texas Air managers assumed control of Eastern -- 123 flight attendants were fired.  That was nearly five times greater than 1985, the union said. In the first two months of this year 35 flight attendants losing their jobs, according to union records.     Other unions report similar losses.     Texas Air last month said it would switch six of Eastern's wide-body jets to Continental, its cut-rate sister airline.     Eastern has begun hiring other Texas Air carriers to repair its planes in several cities and plans to shut down some maintenance bases, according to a recent internal memo.     "Texas Air is not going to write checks to Eastern to underwrite an outmoded labor cost structure," Bakes told a meeting of Miami businessmen this month. He denied, however, that Lorenzo planned to strip Eastern of its assets.  Reuter &#3;

