26-MAR-1987 02:50:02.12

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - TOKYO EARTHQUAKE AFTERSHOCKS

The possibility that a major earthquake will strike Tokyo, causing corporate and financial ruin, haunts the worst nightmares of many insurers and bankers polled by Reuters.     The Japanese capital is shaken by hundreds of small tremors every year, but last week's biq quake in western Japan, which measured 6.9 on the open-ended Richter scale, was a timely reminder that the big one could come at any time.     Another on Tuesday registering a preliminary 6.5 on the scale struck the Sea of Japan coast northwest of Tokyo.     A widely accepted theory by the late seismologist Kawasumi Hiroshi states that major quakes occur in cycles averaging 69 years. Tokyo was last laid flat in 1923 by a tremor reading 7.8, raising the spectre of another within five years.     Seismic experts at Shizuoka, one of three areas near Tokyo considered quake-prone, say they expect a major earthquake within the next few years.     Added to such fears is the fact that no developed nation has suffered a major quake since the far-reaching changes in the last two decades which have bound the global economy into a complex, fragile, interdependent financial network.     "We are reaching a dangerous time. Insurance companies are starting to worry about how to cover the large losses," said Hatsuho Narita, a manager at the British Insurance Group.     "It's a theme that has worried a lot of people. It's difficult to put a figure on it, but the impact on all world markets would be considerable," Brian Waterhouse, a banking expert at brokerage James Capel in Tokyo, told Reuters.     What would happen?     Consider that Tokyo and its six surrounding prefectures account for up to 40 pct of Japanese gross national product, or some six pct of world GNP.     Some economists believe that in the immediate aftermath of a Tokyo quake, the yen would rise against sterling because of the large amount of reinsurance which would fall due in London. But it would plunge against other currencies.     This would worsen the dramatic loss of value in land and assets in the Tokyo area. Banks would be left holding hundreds of billions of dollars in worthless mortgages and loans.     Bankers estimate that 50 to 70 pct of city and regional banks' loan exposure is to smaller business, which would most likely lose all in a quake. Up to nine pct of their exposure is in housing and consumer loans, they said.     Many smaller banks and some larger ones would go to the wall, bankers polled by Reuters said.     The government, aware that insurance claims would be huge, has set a payout ceiling of 10 mln yen per private house. In Tokyo, 100 mln yen buys only a very modest residence.     In addition, the insurance industry has formed the Japan Earthquake Reinsurance Co to cover housing to a total of 10 billion dlrs, 80 pct of it government-guaranteed.     However, insurers said the industrial sector, which has no government backing, is a more dangerous risk.     Japanese insurers said they are finding it increasingly difficult to find reinsurance abroad.     "Overseas firms are now very alert to earthquake insurance risks," said Tahashi Kumakiri, Foreign Department head at the Japan Non-life Insurance Association.     Due to limited world insurance capacity, the Finance Ministry recommends a coverage limit of 15 to 30 pct of Japanese firms' total insurable value.     Even so, one insurer believes that local firms reinsure up to 80 pct of their quake cover overseas, most of it through Lloyds of London.     Some of this reinsurance is then reinsured again, compounding the risks should the money suddenly be called in.     Foreign entities in Japan are allowed 100 pct quake cover but foreign insurers now set a limit of 60 pct.     Industrial cover is confidential but official figures show that in fiscal 1985/86 ended March 31, Japan did about half a billion dlrs of overseas reinsurance business in fire cover, most of which is quake-related.     Bankers said the destruction of underlying assets and repatriation of huge amounts of Japanese overseas investment would seriously affect overseas stock and bond markets.     Japanese institutions buy a net 10 billion dlrs or so of foreign bonds a month, much of it U.S. Treasuries, and are purchasing more and more U.S. And European stocks. The value of foreign holdings of Japanese securities would nosedive.     Japan would need huge amounts of money over a long period to rebuild, which would block out developing nation creditors from existing capital resources, the bankers said.     Loss of central computers would mean billions in lost transactions, bankers noted.     Oil traders said crude prices would plummet as imports fell by up to half from some three mln barrels per day now.  REUTER &#3;

