18-MAR-1987 16:24:42.37

TRIPLE WITCHING ISSUE OVERHANGS FUTURES MEETING

Leaders of the major U.S. commodity exchanges and their federal regulators begin a three-day meeting here tomorrow satisfied with the industry's growth but uncertain about their futures.     An estimated 1,200 industry officials are expected to attend the annual gathering hosted by the Futures Industry Association, FIA.     The satisfaction comes from the dramatic expansion of the U.S. futures and options industries over the last decade.     The uncertainty surrounding this year's meeting stems largely from a pervasive sense that the potential for major market disruption stalks the futures, options and equity industries.     This bucolic resort will provide an ironic backdrop as the financial industry's chiefs anxiously observe this quarter's triple witching hour, March 20, when price gyrations threaten to rock markets.     Triple witching occurs when stock index futures and options and individual stock options expire simultaneously.     The quarterly phenomenon has been marked by price volatility as arbitrageurs have shifted investments between stocks and their derivative instruments.     In an effort to quell price fluctuations, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, home of the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures contract, recently announced plans to move the contract's settlement to the morning of the quarterly expiration day from the afternoon.     The New York Stock Exchange this Friday intends to implement stricter procedures requiring members to submit all market-on-close orders in 50 blue-chip stocks by 1530 EST.     Despite these efforts to ensure smoother contract expirations, there is a sense more might have to be done to avert an uncontrollable fall in prices someday.     Looming over the exchanges are the twin threats of fortified federal regulation and congressional action to strap market activity.     Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, Chairman Susan Phillips has said the current regulatory structure is adequate to cope with intermarket arbitrage, but that she expects new surveillance procedures and enhanced cooperation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC.     SEC Chairman John Shad, voicing concern over price volatility associated with program trading, has resurrected a proposal, opposed by CFTC officials, to give federal regulators control over the setting of futures margins.     Some contend that because futures margins are low relative to stock margins, portfolio managers have a tendency to shift out of stock index futures in a falling stock market, hastening a downward price spiral.     Absent from this week's meeting will be a key congressional player -- Rep. John Dingell (D-Mi.), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and head of a subcommittee responsible for overseeing the SEC.     Dingell has promised to look into program trading and explore ways of insuring investors and hedgers against market disruptions. He is interested in reviewing margins and dual trading, a practice that allows futures brokers to trade for their own account before placing customers' orders.     Recently, a group of CME members, concerned over the perception of abuse of dual trading, proposed banning the practice. The CME board responded with a plan that would restrict, but not ban, the activity.     The meeting will also be attended by regulators from Australia, Britain, France, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Singapore. Their appearance coincides with a controversial CFTC proposal to adopt new regulations over the trading of foreign futures and options on U.S. exchanges.     The U.S. exchanges oppose the proposed regulations on the grounds they would prove unnecessarily burdensome.     Other areas of disagreement between the CFTC and the exchanges include the requirement that the exchanges implement strict, one-minute audit trails by this summer, proposals to revise federal limits on speculative positions and the definition of hedging, and CFTC efforts to determine which new instruments must be traded on regulated exchanges.  Reuter &#3;

