 7-APR-1987 16:36:25.77

BRAZIL'S DEBT CRISIS BECOMING POLITICAL CRISIS

Brazil's financial crisis is rapidly becoming a political and social crisis, and President Jose Sarney faces increasingly serious questions about his future.     As Brazil enters debt talks with creditors in the United States this week, political analysts say Sarney's administration has never appeared weaker.     The full political price which Sarney will have to pay for the failure of the much-vaunted anti-inflation Cruzado Plan is still not clear. He might have to pay with the presidency.     Calls are increasing for direct presidential elections to pick a successor to Sarney early next year. The length of his term will be decided by a Constituent Assembly, and Sarney has been lobbying for a six-year term.     Sarney came to power, without facing presidential elections, in March 1985, when the military bowed out after 21 years of rule.     Although there was wide public support for direct  elections for president, the military as one of their last acts, insisted an electoral college, where it felt it had more influence, make the choice.     The college chose Tancredo Neves, a popular politician who headed the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB), which had opposed military rule.     In part to smooth relations with the military, Neves chose Sarney, a supporter of the generals, for the purely ceremonial post of vice-president. But Neves died before he could take office and Sarney took power.     He won the grudging support of the PMDB and the Cruzado Plan was wildly popular with inflation-weary Brazilians.     But the Cruzado Plan failed and politics in Brazil has not been the same.     "The country is a rudderless ship," said a U.S. Diplomat, echoing a common view that the government lacks any clear idea of how to tackle the economic crisis.     Sarney has appeared increasingly isolated, with criticism coming from the business community, the trade unions, some of the military, the media and political opponents.     Many businessmen are unhappy with Sarney's decision announced on February 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt.     A motor industry executive said: "The business community thinks Brazil should go to the IMF. Their rules are sometimes harsh and strict, but this is the only way to put the house in order."     Trade unions generally support the debt moratorium, but disagree with other aspects of government policy. Since the end of February they have organized national strikes of seamen, bankworkers and federal university teachers and countless local stoppages and protests.     Economic problems have prompted criticism from some military figures, including the last army ruler, General Joao Figueiredo. It is a sign of the times that almost daily military men deny there is going to be a coup.     If the army does stay in the barracks, the key arbitors of Sarney's fate will be the PMDB's leaders. So far, they have not taken a clear stand on the issue of direct elections.     But one PMDB leader, Senator Affonso Camargo, pointedly said yesterday that it was the sovereign right of the Consituent Assembly to call direct elections for the presidency whenever it wished.     In the media, Sarney has to contend with strong criticism.     One senior political commentator, Fernando Pedreira of the Jornal do Brasil, wrote in the newspaper last week:     "President Sarney is ... a man of good intentions, but it is just possible that he himself is not aware of the true state of the country and the people since the immense failure of the Cruzado Plan.     "The disappointment, the frustration, the irritation, the enticement have been (and continue to be) too great, too profound."He called for direct elections early in 1988 as the only way out of the present crisis.     One of Sao Paulo's leading news magazines, Senhor, said in an editorial this week: "The anarcho-populist government of President Jose Sarney has failed. Two years have already been too long for such a disastrous experience.     "It deserves to be buried as quickly as possible. The natural solution: direct elections soon."     The government's inability to control inflation is now bringing with it serious social problems.     An explosion in rents in Sao Paulo has thrown tens of thousands of families onto the streets because they can no longer afford to pay even for a wooden shack in the slums.     The local press says the city is experiencing the biggest wave of land invasions in its history.    According to rental agencies, rents have increased 500 pct in little more than a year. Even the cheapest shacks now cost 2,000 cruzados (90 dollars) a month, half as much again as the minimum wage, which is all that many earn.     Cardinal Paulo Evaristo Arns, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Sao Paulo, warned yesterday of the possibility of "a social conflict of unimaginable proportions."     With his back to the wall politically and with social tensions rising, Sarney is no position to compromise on debt.  Reuter &#3;

