12-MAR-1987 13:53:42.83

DATA TAPES ERASED IN VW FRAUD, CHAIRMAN SAYS

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> supervisory board chairman Karl Gustaf Ratjen said entire data tapes had been erased and complete programs altered in forged transactions amounting to around 480 mln marks.     "In this case a degree of criminal energy has been brought into play which until now was unimaginable in a German company," he said in a radio interview.     He could not completely rule out the possibility that losses would exceed 500 mln marks, but said there were currently no signs that they would be higher than the 480 mln announced on Tuesday.     Some 70 to 80 mln marks had probably been lost through disregard for internal instructions, he added, but did not elaborate. However, the remainder had definitely been lost through criminal action and forgery in 1984.     Ratjen said the affair would lead to consequences up to the board room. He would recommend that those under suspicion of being involved in criminal acts would have to go immediately.     Those who had not exercised checking functions sufficiently would also have to go.     But Volkwagen management board chairman Carl Hahn was not involved in the affair, he said.     A Volkswagen spokesman said the company had made sufficient provision in previous years to cover the losses from the fraud. Its 1986 profit would, therefore, match 1985 world group net profits of 595.6 mln marks.     Volkwagen disclosed the existence of the fraud on Tuesday, saying it was possible that documents about currency hedging had been falsified and that those responsible may have come from outside Volkswagen and may have been assisted by company staff.     Criminal complaints on suspicion of fraud, breach of trust and forgery of documents had been filed, it added.     The company spokesman said the supervisory board would meet on April 9 to examine the precise extent of the losses and to approve the year-end results.     Ratjen said it was important for Volkwagen to maintain a degree of "internal integrity" on account of its 200,000 employees, particularly as shop floor elections were coming up.     "On the one hand one fights for every single mark of income. And here is a case where hundreds of millions are being just thrown away," he added.  Reuter &#3;

