11-MAR-1987 13:20:21.02

CBT POSTPONES NIGHT TRADING START TO APRIL 30

The Chicago Board of Trade's (CBT) board of directors voted to postpone the start of what will be the first U.S. evening futures trading session until April 30 from April 2 to give participants a chance to get ready, the exchange announced.     Several trading firms had asked for a delay in the start-up of the evening session so that the firms can work out operational difficulties created by the off-hours session.     CBT chairman Karsten Mahlmann said in a statement the delay will "afford all firms the time necessary to be 100 pct ready for this innovative program, we are postponing the opening date."     The board of directors accepted yesterday's recommendation by a committee of members overseeing the planned evening session, which was originally scheduled to start April 2. The session is designed to begin the global trading day from 1800 to 2100 local Chicago time Monday through Thursday.     CBT members overwhelmingly approved the evening session in a vote conducted a month ago.     But before night trading can begin, the CBT still has to obtain approval from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.     Pending regulatory approval, the CBT plans to offer evening trading in the world's most active futures contract, Treasury bonds, along with Treasury note futures and options on those contracts.     The evening session will make available to traders in the Far East interest rate hedging vehicles when their day is just beginning, and the CBT hopes to attract trading capital from the Pacific Rim's burgeoning financial centers.     When the idea for a night trading session was broached, it met with resistance from many local traders who said the session would add to the physical strain of their jobs.     Many traders and member firms also questioned whether the night session would have the liquidity necessary to survive, and complained that the cost of manning trading desks for two sessions per 24-hour cycle might not be worthwhile.     Some credit market analysts, including Norman Quinn, president of Golden Gate Futures, said the night session would likely be dominated by institutions, because the larger local traders would refuse to return at night.     Nevertheless, Quinn and other traders said the night session has a good chance of succeeding.  Reuter &#3;

