23-MAR-1987 12:55:25.03

INDEX TRADING NOT TO BLAME FOR WALL STREET FALL

A report by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) concluded that index trading was not to blame for the two-day stock market drop that occurred Sept. 11-12, 1986     The report, made public today, concluded that index trading magnified but was not the cause of last fall's two-day 120-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Index.     The commission staff said it planned to continue to closely monitor developments in index-related trading but planned no immediate regulatory action as a result of the precipitous stock market decline.     "The magnitude of the September decline was a result of changes in investors' perceptions of fundamental economic conditions, rather than artifical forces arising from index-related trading strategies," the report said.     "Nevertheless, index-related futures trading was instrumental in the rapid transmission of these changed investor perceptions to individual stock prices, and may have condensed the time period in which the decline occurred."     The SEC staff concluded its study "does not provide an independent basis to conclude that radical regulatory or structural changes are necessary at this time."     The report said "the dramatic growth in the size and institutional use of index products requires continued careful analysis of the potential for disruption of the stock market as well as manipulative or other inappropriate trading in the index products and their component stocks."     It said there "may be merit" to requiring additional reporting and record keeping procedures for index-related trading. But it added that the SEC staff has not yet considered the costs and benefits of the various alternatives.     The report does not deal with a second precipitous dip in the market which occurred Jan. 23.     On that day, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 115 points in little more than an hour.     The SEC said its staff was still analyzing the underlying causes of that price decline and had not yet made findings.     The SEC study was made after a number of investors, news reports and other analysts blamed the Sept. 11-12 drop on so-called "program trading," in which computers rapidly execute complex trading strategies designed to profit from minute changes in the relationship between the price of stock index futures and the stocks that make up the index.     The investors and analysts complained that such rapid movements in the stock market would drive small investors out of the market and possible even lead to a stock market crash.     But the SEC report said the possibility of a market collapse was "remote."     It said it believed any rapid stock price decline "likely" would eventually be reversed by renewed buying as prices reached far lower levels.     It also argued that index futures and options are important to traders who use them to hedge their market positions and lessen risk exposure.     "While a 'cascade effect' may be possible as a result of index-related trading, it did not ocur on Sept. 11 and 12," the report concluded.  Reuter &#3;

