29-JUN-1987 03:55:30.16

N.Z. OPPOSITION PARTY UNVEILS ECONOMIC POLICY

New Zealand's opposition National Party said it would cut personal and business taxes and would not regulate or control interest rates if returned to power.     The economic strategy was unveiled by party leader Jim Bolger one day before prime minister David Lange announces the date of general elections, widely expected to be August 15.     The National Party's tax policies included the abolition of death and gift duties and the removal of indirect taxes on basic food and doctors' fees.     The most recent opinion poll, taken on June 20, gave Labour a 26 point lead over National or eight points more than a month earlier.     National said that under its administration the New Zealand dollar would find its level with "complementary fiscal and monetary policies." The party did not elaborate.     Controversy over National's economic policy erupted in March when former prime minister Robert Muldoon said the party had adopted a policy of a managed exchange rate.     Bolger said then that the National Party would continue to float the dollar.     Since the dollar was floated by the Labour Party in March 1985 it has risen about 34 pct, cutting the export incomes of farmers, who are traditional National Party supporters.     The party said tight monetary policies alone would lead to unrealistic exchange rates which would be out of line for exporters unless they were supported by a low government borrowing requirement, a shrinking government sector and positive growth.     It aimed to keep aspects of deregulation which have benefitted New Zealanders while cutting government spending, unemployment, interest rates, inflation and tax.     The National Party intends to privatise totally the <Bank of New Zealand>, <Development Finance Corporation>, <Tourist Hotel Corporation>, <Petrocorp>, <State Insurance> and <Government Life Office>, the party said.     Other candidates for privatisation, such as <Air New Zealand Ltd>, would be considered when the share market could absorb them.  REUTER &#3;

