 9-MAR-1987 12:04:36.95

GERMAN BANKS SAY COMPANY HOLDINGS FALLING

West German private banks, in the latest twist in a long-running battle over the size of their holdings in industry, have said the holdings were falling and rejected calls for tighter limits on these participations.     Under West Germany's banking system, banks can hold shares in non-banking companies giving them seats on company supervisory boards, and administer the holdings of small shareholders in safe custody accounts.     Holdings of over 25 pct, which give a veto right in the supervisory board of a company, must be disclosed.     "The claim that the concentration of power has intensified, as made by the Monopolies Commission, therefore turns out not to be accurate ... There is no reason to impose further legal restrictions on the acquisition of holdings by banks," it said.     The Association's letter is the latest skirmish in a long running battle between banks on the one hand and a range of government offices and political lobbies on the left and right.     The number of holdings above 10 pct in public companies with a nominal share capital of over one mln marks held by these 10 banks fell to 86 in 1986 from 129 in 1976, it said.     Of these 43 reductions, 41 represented holdings of over 25 pct in 1976. The banks' holdings of nominal share capital fell to 1.70 billion marks in 1986, or 1.34 billion adjusted for capital changes in the past 10 years from 1.80 billion in 1976.     Over this period total West German nominal share capital rose to 235 billion marks from 136 billion, so that the holding of banks in German companies fell to 0.7 pct from 1.3 pct.     The nominal share capital of listed non-bank companies rose to an estimated 49 billion marks in 1986 from 35.58 billion in 1976, with banks' holdings falling to 1.57 billion marks or 3.2 pct from 1.61 billion marks or 4.5 pct, the Association said.     It argued that bank representatives were in a minority on the supervisory boards of the 100 biggest German companies, and in most cases could be blocked by non-banking representatives.     The survey covered Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>, Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F>, Bayerische Vereinsbank AG <BVMG.F> and Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank AG <BHWG.F>.     It also covered Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bank <BHFG.F>, <Berliner Bank AG>, <Industriekreditbank AG>, Vereins- und Westbank AG <VHBG.F> and <Baden-Wuerttembergische Bank AG>.     Deutsche holds by far the largest number of such stakes, including 28.5 pct of Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F>.     Criticism of the bank holdings has not only come from the Monopolies Commission and left-wing parties. An advisory commission, in a report late last year to the Economics Ministry, urged implementation of the five pct proposed by the Monopolies Commission to promote competition and avoid interest conflicts.     The Economics Ministry has been controlled by the liberal Free Democrat Party, junior partner in the centre-right coalition government and increasingly in favour of deregulation.     Furthermore the West German Supreme Court recently supported an action by a private Deutsche shareholder demanding more transparency in the bank's balance sheet.     The shareholder argued that the bank's ability to declare industrial stakes of more than 25 pct as only temporary holdings evaded the statutory requirement to report them in full. If a bank declares stakes temporary it does not have to disclose them but can include them under securities holdings.     The case is due to be heard again by the Frankfurt higher regional court.  REUTER &#3;

