19-JUN-1987 14:34:02.92

LLOYDS BANK BOND MARKET WITHDRAWAL CALLED PRUDENT

Lloyds Bank Plc's <LLOY.L> decision to withdraw from making markets in Eurobonds and U.K. Government bonds (gilts) sent shivers down the spines of other market participants but was viewed as prudent by banking analysts.     "It (the move) really isn't a surprise. They lost a lot of money in the early stages of the gilt market and now they want to cut their losses while they can," said Keith Brown, banking analyst at Greenwell Montagu.     "The question now is how many other gilt market makers will face a similar fate," one senior gilt market maker said.     Eurobond market participants were equally stunned. "They are the first firm of that size I can remember to have pulled out of eurobond market making altogether," said a member of the Association of International Bond Dealers London staff.     Other Eurobond market participants said that while Lloyds had frequently changed the staff of some of its eurobond operations, it was hard to believe they were in trouble.     With this action Lloyds, the third largest U.K. clearing bank, becomes the first U.K. clearing bank to withdraw from the gilt market following the Big Bang deregulation of the London Stock Exchange in October.     Earlier this year Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L>, the fourth largest clearing bank, opted out of making markets in equities on the grounds that the return did not justify the expense. It continues as a market maker in gilts, however. In a prepared statement, Lloyds Bank chief executive Brian Pitman said the bank had a "relatively small position in these two overcrowded markets and we have decided to reallocate the resources to opportunities which promise a better return on our shareholders investment."     Lloyds said it would maintain its presence in short-term securities trading, swaps and other treasury products.     Alan Moore, Lloyds Treasurer, told Reuters that the decision was forward looking and followed a "strategic review" of the prospects for Lloyds in these markets. "We decided the return just was not attractive," he said.     Although the decision was made at a meeting of Lloyds board this morning, Moore said that it had been under consideration for some time.     He denied that the move was a "reaction to events in the trading room" although he acknowledged that the bank's gilt operations were not profitable in the early stages of the new market.     Greenwell's Brown noted that for all of 1986, Lloyds Merchant Bank sustained a loss of 28 mln stg, most of which he said were accounted for by the Eurobond and gilt operations. For all of 1986, Lloyds reported a pre-tax profit of 700 mln stg. "Lloyds is so big, it can easily absorb these losses," Brown said, noting that they are minuscule when compared with the bank's exposure to Latin America.     U.K. Clearing banks have come under pressure to increase their provisions against bad loans to third world countries since Citibank announced plans to add three billion dlrs to its provisions in mid-May.     National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>, the largest of the clearers, became the first of the U.K. Clearers to follow Citicorp's <CCI> move earlier this week when it said it was adding some 466 mln stg to its sovereign debt provisions.     Lloyds has the second largest exposure to Latin America after Midland Bank, the smallest of the four clearers.     Lloyds has said it is reviewing the situation and Moore denied that today's action had any connection. "It is totally unrelated," he said.     Trading in Eurobonds and gilts had ended by the time the announcement was made. But market participants were dumbfounded.     "We only heard the news about 20 minutes before the announcement. I had no idea it was coming. I don't know if I still have job," said one trader at Lloyds who declined to be identified. Lloyds' Moore said that the bank would do all it could to redeploy the staff affected by the decision in other parts of the bank. But even though Lloyds' share of these markets was relatively small, other market participants, particularly in gilts, were unnerved.     One senior gilt market maker noted that the news comes during a period when both gilt and Eurosterling markets have been battered by the lack of investor participation, following the June 11 U.K. general election.     Most firms had held long positions on expectations that a return of the ruling Conservative party would prompt heavy demand. These expectations have failed to be met and both markets have sustained sizeable losses since the election.     Lloyds has long been the subject of rumors that it was experiencing problems with its gilt operations and officials have never denied that the early stages were unprofitable.     Gilt market sources suggested that one of the problems facing Lloyds on the gilt side was its decision to build up its own team. It was the only clearer which did not purchase a broker or a jobber (middle man) in the run-up to Big Bang.     Under the old system, these functions have been conducted separately but now market makers perform both tasks.     But even long before Big Bang, market makers had expressed doubts that the gilt market would be large enough to sustain 27 market makers, even if turnover increased substantially.     And with Lloyds withdrawal, many market makers believe that some of the remaining 26 may opt to bow out gracefully.  Reuter &#3;

