20-OCT-1987 16:13:48.39

AMERICAN EXPRESS SAYS ITS STRATEGY IS STABLE

American Express Co's <AXP> president Louis Gerstner Jr. said a bear market will not effect his company's long-term strategy.     "I don't think where the market goes over any month long period, two day period, or even six month period has anything to do with our strategy," Gerstner told Reuters.     "We have built a strategy for our company that looks out over many years and anticipates a lot of change," he said.     Gerstner said the company's long term strategy is to build and maintain a major position in the financial and travel service industries. American Express is the 69 pct parent of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc <SHE>.     Gerstner would not comment on the share market tailspin.     However, American Express chairman James Robinson said in a statement that the company could endure the market turbulence and was in a strong position for further growth.     "All brokerage firms make money if the market goes down or up," Gerstner told Reuters without elaborating.     Gerstner said Shearson had no plans to quit its municipal bond activities. "Shearson Lehman Brothers tends to adjust to trends in incremental steps. You will see it doing less of the convulsive one-time changes that people in this industry will go through," he said. Shearson recently laid off 150 people in London and is limiting hiring, but Gerstner said American Express remains committed to the London market and to having a global presence.     "That Shearson let a couple of hundred people go in London is not even an anthill on the landscape we're discussing. We are discussing long-term strategy," Gerstner said.     Earlier this year, American Express sold 13 pct of its stake in Shearson to Nippon Life Insurance Co of Japan and a further 18 pct to the public. Gerstner said these moves "had no implications of an exit from financial services."     "Our committment globally is represented by the Nippon tie-up which dwarfs the fact we decided to reduce the size of one department, in one company, in one of our subsidiaries," he said.     Many securities firms now are stressing merchant banking to bolster earnings hurt by bond market volatility, slow retail business and a drop in underwriting volume.     When asked if more players would make the system more risky, Gerstner said, "I can't comment on other firms, but Shearson is not going to follow a feeding frenzy in the direction of merchant banking. We are not going to overreach."     Gerstner also spoke about securitization, or the repackaging of debt as marketable securities.     "It is almost imperative to create a security backed by the funds flowing from an LDC (lessor developed countries) debt program. It is going to happen, but it is very difficult to create a security in the current climate," Gerstner said.     "Securitized products could be structured for either the retail or institutional markets," Gerstner said.     "If you look at the junk bond phenomenom, it started out with mostly institutional buyers. Primarily through mutual funds, individual buyers became a presense in the market. I'd guess we'd see a similiar situation in LDC debt," he said.     "The fundamental thing that has to happen (before there can be sucessful securitization) is that the debt burden on the countries has to be reduced, and the amount of money coming from the commerical banks and the future call for money on commercial banks has to be reduced," Gerstner said.  Reuter &#3;

