13-APR-1987 18:34:50.30

PENNZOIL <PZL> PLOTS STRATEGY TO FIGHT TEXACO

Pennzoil Co, frustrated by Texaco Inc's <TX> decision to seek bankruptcy protection from its 10.3 billion dlr court judgment, is preparing to launch a new assault that may include investigating assets Texaco transferred from its corporate parent to subsidiaries, legal experts said.     Joe Jamail, a Houston lawyer for Pennzoil, said the company would file a challenge to Texaco's bankruptcy petition sometime this week accusing the oil giant of bad faith and ignoring its fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders.     The action is almost certain to ignite a new round of debate between the two companies stemming from Texaco's 1984 acquisition of Getty Oil Co for 10.2 billion dlrs, a company Pennzoil believed it had an agreement to buy.     "We're going to be doing a lot of things they may not like," Jamail said, referring to the bankruptcy court proceeding in New York.     Some legal experts suggested that a mud-slinging battle in bankruptcy court between the two companies might also provoke Congressional interest in whether the bankruptcy code is too lenient because it permits a profitable firm to freeze debts.     Texaco, which has assets totaling 34.9 billion dlrs, sought protection Sunday under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code rather than risk having a Texas appeals court order the company to post a security bond for the entire amount of the Pennzoil judgment.     Gerald Treece, dean of the South Texas College of Law and an observer of the litigation during the past three years, said Pennzoil was unlikely to prove Texaco is not qualified to be in bankruptcy court simply because the giant oil company has a positive cash flow and assets that far exceed its liabilities.     But Pennzoil may be successful in raising the issue of whether Texaco improperly transferred certain assets from the corporate parent into subsidiaries unaffected by the bankruptcy filing, Treece said.     "Pennzoil's lawyers are going to be like dogs barking at the heels of Texaco wherever they go," Treece said, "I think people are going to be surprised at the level of intensity that Pennzoil will use in searching for hidden Texaco assets."     Jamail said Pennzoil objected to Texaco's transfer of an oil refinery and chemical plant in Port Arthur, Texas from its corporate parent to a subsidiary on Dec. 9, 1985, one day before a state court judge entered the record jury award against Texaco. Jamail suggested that the refinery and chemical plant, valued at about 1.1 billion dlrs, were deliberately placed out of reach of the Texas jury judgment.     But Richard Lieb, an attorney with Kronish, Lieb, Weiner and Hellman in New York, said Texaco could elect to place additional subsidiaries into bankruptcy if necessary.     In the petition filed Sunday, only Texaco Inc, the corporate parent, and two financial subsidiaries were included in the bankruptcy case. The businesses account for only about four pct of Texaco's total revenues.     Mickey Sheinfeld, a Houston lawyer who represented Continental Airlines in an historic bankruptcy case that set aside labor union agreements, said the track record of the bitter Texaco-Pennzoil struggle indicates that the two companies could spend two or three years fighting in bankruptcy court.     "The courts have been very interested in the issue of good-faith bankruptcy filings. This may prove to be a landmark case in developing that issue," Sheinfeld said.     Texaco, he said, was following the example set by Manville Corp, A.H. Robins Co and other firms that fell into bankruptcy expressly to avoid paying large legal judgments. Bankruptcy laws were relaxed in 1978 so that a company no longer needed to prove it was insolvent in order to seek protection from creditors.     Texaco lawyers bristle at the suggestion that the company entered bankruptcy to spite Pennzoil.     Gibson Gayle, a Texaco lawyer, said the company had every right to seek protection from creditors, and that Texaco had embarked on an internal restructuring plan in December 1984 that required transferring various assets among subsidiaries. But Treece said the high profile of the Texaco bankruptcy case may also put the company under an uncomfortable spotlight.     "What seems fair and what may be legally correct may be two entirely different things," Treece said. "This may be a signal to Congress to do something about tightening the bankruptcy laws. You are either a chicken or a duck, just like you are either bankrupt or you're not."  Reuter &#3;

