12-MAR-1987 16:40:30.73

DOME <DMP> SAYS MOST LENDERS SUPPORT DEBT PLAN

Dome Petroleum Ltd said a majority of a group of 56 major creditors support the company's revised proposal to restructure debt of more than 6.1 billion Canadian dlrs.     Outlining terms of the plan circulated to the lenders earlier this week, the company said it is seeking approval in principle for the proposal "within the next several weeks" in order to implement the debt rescheduling by June 30, 1987.     "Although at today's price levels it only allows the company to struggle on, benefits appear as oil prices rise," Dome chairman J. Howard Macdonald said in a statement.     "We believe the plan is a rational one, and will be valid under a range of circumstances," chairman Macdonald said.     The lenders previously agreed to an interim debt rescheduling until June 30 to allow Dome time to negotiate a long-term recapitalization.     The debt proposal is designed to ensure continued existence of the company, which would see lenders get maximum recovery of their loans, Dome said.     The plan would maintain debt levels within Dome's ability to pay, subject to minimum debt service levels for each lender.     Dome said the debt proposal offers measures such as equity conversion options and reclassification to lower interest bearing categories of debt to accomplish its objectives.     Under certain circumstances, lenders will have the option to convert all or part of their debt to common shares at a pre-determined conversion rate upon plan implementation.     The various conversion rates remain to be set through negotiations, and the company said it is impossible to predict the extent to which the conversion option will be exercised and the amount of dilution that may result.     Converting debt to common shares after the plan is implemented would be at a much higher conversion price, Dome said.     Common shareholders will be asked to approve the plan before it is put in place.     Debt that remains after share conversion will either receive scheduled payments based on contract interest rates and a 15 to 20 year pay-out, or interest rates indexed to oil prices. The company will use both an annual security-to-debt ratio test and a monthly cash flow test to classify which interest payments are paid on the different portions of debt.     To achieve a stable operating base for the company, the plan provides for deducting operating costs, capital expenditures and general and administrative expenses before the remaining available cash flow is distributed to lenders, Dome said.     The proposal also assumes efforts will continue to operate the business as efficiently as possible, it said.     As the company previously said, debt payments from cash flow be divided into two broad categories, secured and unsecured creditors.     Terms of the debt plan include paying institutional unsecured creditors, comprising mostly banks who hold private debt, from cash flow generated by unpledged assets. This portion will get a fixed low interest rate under a 15-year repayment schedule.     Remaining institutional unsecured debt will get paid through convertible, oil indexed unsecured debt that matures in 20 years, or any available excess cash flow, or conversion to equity. Any institutional lender also has the option of taking all or part of its debt in common shares.     To offer public unsecured debtholders liquidity, Dome said they can also convert all or part of their debt to common shares when the plan is implemented. Any debt leftover would be exchanged for a convertible debenture with an interest rate linked to oil prices.     Secured creditors would get paid from cashflow generated by the assets pledged against their debt under a complex formula, the company said.     Any shortfalls under the formula could also be converted to oil-linked debentures.  Reuter &#3;

