31-MAR-1987 03:24:41.38

JAPANESE HESITATE TO INVEST IN WEST GERMAN STOCKS

Japanese investors are reluctant to buy West German stocks, now considered one of the most attractive buys around after having taken a beating for the past two years, investment managers said.     Although the Frankfurt stock market is one of the world's largest in capitalisation, wealthy Japanese institutions view it as too small. They also worry about venturing into a market from which British investors have recently bailed out, they said.     "There's not enough turnover there to absorb the amount of buying Japanese want to do," one West German investment manager said. There is a danger Japanese institutions may be unable to liquidate their holdings quickly if the market takes a sudden downturn, he added.     "Japanese familiarity with West German stocks is also limited," another investment manager said. "They know the blue chips, but there are too many other names they don't know."     The recent rapid advance of the Tokyo stock market has also deterred Japanese from wandering off to markets abroad, investment managers said.     Japanese fund managers are afraid of criticism if they buy into unsure overseas markets while the market at home continues to advance, said Seiji Yamamoto, senior manager at Dresdner ABD Securities Ltd's Tokyo branch.     If gains from investments abroad lag behind those possible from the Tokyo market, they could face difficulty explaining their funds' performance, he added.     The Frankfurt market's 15 pct depreciation just since the beginning of this year has also been causing Japanese investors to turn away, one investment manager said.     The Frankfurt slump stems from expectations of slow corporate growth due to the mark's strength against the dollar and a withdrawal of funds by British institutions just before the London market's liberalisation last year, the investment manager said. "Right now Japanese investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude while the condition of the market remains unfavourable," he said.     Although there has been some nibbling of West German stocks, particularly last week, most of the buys were for short-term trades rather than long-term investments, an investment advisor at a West German firm said.     Investment managers believe, however, that genuine interest in West German stocks could develop within the next three to six months.     Japanese fund managers still favour the New York and the London markets over the Frankfurt market but they are interested in diversifying some of their funds, they said.     Some managers have been travelling in Europe, looking for new opportunities, and are unlikely to ignore West German stocks, especially with the average price/earnings ratio at about 11, they said.     The Frankfurt ratio compares with about 16 for the U.S. And London markets and 52 for the Japanese market, Guenter Kirchhain, first vice president for Deutsche Bank AG said.     "This mismatching will sooner or later generate an enormous alignment potential," he said. The West German market could reasonably have an average price/earnings ratio of around 16, he added.     Japanese investment plans may soon become clearer as many institutions begin their new business years in April, he said.     However, one fund manager does not agree that new investment in West Germany will come that soon.     "Japanese do not buy into a market with declining fundamentals," he said. When West Germany's fundamental economic indicators appear to have bottomed out, that will be the turning point for their investments, he added.     Another manager said the Japanese are waiting to see the investment trends set by U.S. And British investors in the West German market.     "They are waiting for someone to make the first move," he said.  REUTER &#3;

