 7-APR-1987 11:08:12.19

THATCHER FIRM AS PRESSURE MOUNTS FOR ELECTIONS

As pressure mounted on British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to call a June election, she said today that the decision on when to go to the county was hers and hers alone.     She was speaking to parliament after senior members of the ruling Conservative Party urged her to call elections due in June 1988 a year early in the wake of two more opinion polls giving her party a commanding lead.     Asked by a Conservative back-bencher for an assurance that the decision was hers alone, and did not depend on "media hype, pressure and speculation," she replied: "The date of the next election will be decided by Downing Street, not Fleet Street."     Downing Street is the Prime Minister's official residence, Fleet Street the traditional home of the British national press.     A Harris poll for the breakfast-time program TV-AM gave the Tories 43 pct of the vote, representing a majority of 132 seats in parliament, their biggest lead since the party's landslide victory in the 1983 elections.     In The Times of London, a MORI poll gave the Tories a 92 seat majority. It was the sixth poll to show the ruling party with a big lead over the opposition Labour Party and the fast-improving centrist Alliance.     Leading the chorus urging Thatcher to go to the polls in June, Sir Marcus Fox, vice-chairman of the influential 1922 committee of Conservative back-benchers, said: "I have always felt that it would be June, and this reinforces my view.     "I always thought June was right. We have got most of our legislation through and to go beyond that I do not think would be in the national interest."     Another Tory back-bencher, Anthony Beaumont-Dark, said: "I have always been an October man, but I think it would be good to get it out of the way now."     Their comments came as government officials dismissed speculation about a snap election to coincide with local polls in May, timed to reap maximum advantage from the recent popularity surge, Thatcher's successful trip to Moscow and Labour's current popularity slump.     Calls for a May poll were also prompted by Tory concern over a steady advance by the Alliance, and the possibility that if it continues it could rob the Conservatives of an overall majority in parliament.     Today's MORI poll showed an Alliance gain of eight points over the past month in around 100 key marginal seats where the outcome of the next election is likely to be decided.  Reuter &#3;

