 5-MAR-1987 09:56:03.54

ENZON <ENZN> SAYS DRUG TREATS DISEASE

Enzon Inc said a new treatment using its investigational new drug PEG-ADA has restored the functioning of the immune system in the first two children that were born deficient in the enzyme adenosine deaminase.     The disorder is known as severe combined immunodeficiency disease, or "bubble boy disease"     Bubble Boy Disease is a rare but severe disease that hampers the development of the immune system. It has killed most of its victims before adulthood.     Children with the disease are consigned to live in a sterile environment, such as a plastic bubble, to avoid infection, the company said.     The study of Enzon's drug, conducted at Duke University, showed that two children suffering from the disease were treated for 11 and seven months, respectively, and were free of serious infection during that time, the company said. The results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine.     The disease is caused by a missing enzyme, called Adenosine Deaminase, or ADA, that is crucial to the development of the immune system.     Enzon said it has developed a technology to coat the enzyme with a substance called polyethylene glycol, or PEG, serving to disguise the enzyme when it is reintroduced into the body, preventing rejection.     "Marked improvement in laboratory tests of immune function occurred in each child, along with an increase in the number of T-lymphocytes, the immune cells that were missing before treatment with PEG-ADA had begun," the study said.     "The children are now more active and have begun to gain weight and height. Before treatment their growth had been very poor in comparison to normal children of the same age," the study, conducted by Doctors Michael Hershfield and Rebecca Buckley, said.     The PEG-ADA injections were given once a week. Victims of the disease have traditionally been treated by bone marrow transplants, but for most, donors are not available or transplantation is unsuccessful, the company said. Other diseases caused by a missing enzyme might also be treated by introducing a PEG coated enzyme, the article noted.  Reuter &#3;

