27-MAR-1987 12:53:59.16&#5;&#5;&#5;F

SECOND FDA PANEL REVIEWS GENENTECH'S <GENE> TPA

The federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is expected to announce soon that it will require an additional review of Genentech Inc's TPA heart drug, a move that likely will delay the company's plans to market the drug this spring, government and Wall Street sources said.     TPA, a bio-engineered blood-clot dissolving drug which Genentech hopes to market under the name Activase, will be reviewed by the FDA's cardiorenal advisory committee during the panel's May 28-29 meeting, the sources said.     Neither Genentech nor the FDA would confirm that a second review of the drug had been set.     "It's under consideration for the May 28-29 meeting," an FDA official said. "It's on a draft agenda."     Similarly, a Genentech spokeswoman said the FDA had not yet notified it of the second advisory committee review.     "We know it's a possibility, but as of this minute, we can't confirm that we are on the agenda," she said.     The spokeswoman said a second review had "always been a possibility." But she declined to say how the review would affect marketing plans before receiving official FDA word.     The spokeswoman acknowledged that rumors of a second FDA committee review had buffeted Genentech's stock yesterday on Wall Street. The stock fell 2.75 dlrs a share to clsoe at 61.75 dlrs.     TPA stands for tissue plasminogen activator, and would be used on heart attack victims to clear blockage in a vein or artery. Though other blood clot dissolvers are on the market, TPA is said to be more effective and with fewer side effects.     Analysts have projected the worldwide market for the drug at as high as 1.5 billion dlrs a year.     Stuart Weisbrod, a biotechnology analyst with Prudential Bache Securities Inc., told Reuters the additional FDA review likely would keep TPA off the market until at least November.     Approval had been expected this spring.     He said the FDA action prompted him to cut his estimate of Genentech's 1987 earnings to about 40 cents a share from his earlier projection of 67 cents a share.     He said the delay would lower Genentech's 1987 revenues from TPA to about five to six mln dlrs compared to an earlier projection of 50 to 60 mln dlrs of 1987 revenues.  Reuter &#3;

