12-MAR-1987 07:34:26.59

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - PARIS BOURSE REFORM

French stockbrokers will lose their jealously guarded 180-year-old monopoly of share trading over the next five years under reforms announced on Tuesday by Finance Minister Edouard Balladur.     But with the prospect of fresh money flooding into their seriously under-capitalised share trading business, there were few signs of regret over the gradual passing of an era.     "It is a question of survival after London's Big Bang," said private market analyst Edouard Cointreau.     Balladur said the long-expected reform of the Bourse structure will progressively allow domestic and foreign banks to buy stakes in stockbrokers' capital, while at the same time brokers will be allowed access to the money markets.     The project foresees free access to the Bourse by January 1, 1992, the date set for the opening of a unified European financial market.     The planned reform, expected to be put before Parliament before the end of the Spring session, will open up the capital of the 45 Paris and 15 regional stockbroker houses in three stages beginning on January 1 next year.     The aim of the move, following the examples of Tokyo and London in opening up their tightly-controlled membership, was "to take up the challenge of European financial integration and fierce international competition," Balladur announced.     Cointreau, founder and chairman of the private market analysis company Centre d'Observation et de Prospective Sociales (COPS), said the reform was a natural development.     "The Paris market is rising but that cannot go on for ever. The brokers know it's a good time to sell part of their business," he told Reuters.     The reform was inevitable given the European Community directive, said Ben Williams of Paris brokerage house Fauchier-Magnan. "From a French point of view one cannot be very disappointed," he said, "but some brokers must be a bit worried as it is not entirely evident that all brokerage houses are worth a lot of money."     He said that with the expansion of the market generally here quality brokerage staff would do very well out of the reforms in salary terms. "But on the whole expertise is not very deep and the banks already have a lot of such expertise."     Dealers agreed generally that by allowing brokers to reinforce their equity capital, the reform was expected to improve their ability to take large positions in stocks and bolster the liquidity of the Paris market.     The French Banking Association, grouping domestic and foreign banks operating here, welcomed the reforms. French banks, which only won direct access to the bond markets last September, have never been happy with the stockbrokers' continuing monopoly on share trading.     Brokers said it was too soon to say what form links with other foreign brokerage houses and banks might take. "Nobody is willing to talk about this yet but one can be sure that alliances have been formed over the past years," Williams said.     Some brokers said the opening up of their capital to banks could pose questions such as whether the major banks might all aim for stakes in the most prestigious and best-performing brokerage houses, or whether the smaller houses might be targetted for swallowing up to give banks an easy entry onto the Bourse.     Individual banks were reticent over likely strategy with their future partners. "Discussions will get underway soon but no specific choice (of broker) has been made yet," a spokesman for Credit Lyonnais who declined to be named said.     Balladur's project does not touch on dealing commissions but many dealers said the question had to be addressed since current bank commission was higher than that of brokers because banks, who cannot deal directly in shares, have to pay a fee to the broker they use for customer trading.     According to a study by the Bourse official watchdog body COB in January, dealing fees on a transaction in shares for a gross total of 1,000 francs were 14.86 pct if the order was placed directly by a broker, against 20.79 pct for the same order passed through a bank.     Xavier Dupont, Chairman of the Stockbrokers' Association, said the reform would not mean an end to the fixed scale of commissions. He said the overall reform would give the French financial markets a "dynamic and efficient organisation." But as both brokers and bankers commented, "let's wait and see."  REUTER &#3;

