18-JUN-1987 06:41:49.95

INVESTIGATORS SAY AIR LANKA LOSSES DEVASTATING

A commission set up to unravel the affairs of debt-ridden Air Lanka says the airline amassed losses of up to 265 mln U.S. Dlrs in "the most devastating financial tragedy" in Sri Lankan commercial history.     The commission, which scrutinised financial dealings from aircraft acquisitions to give-away cookbooks, blamed the airline's previous board for the losses. The panel, appointed in August by President Junius Jayewardene, submitted its report to him on April 20. A copy was obtained by Reuters. The report will be made available to the public by next week.     The three-man commission recommended its findings be passed to state law officers to decide whether penal action was necessary against any members of the former board or Air Lanka's management. The airline comes under the Defence Ministry, a portfolio held by Jayewardene himself.     The commission said Air Lanka's reports to Jayewardene "blurred" its true financial health. It said the airline had irretrievably lost its share capital of 3.8 billion rupees.     To finance deficits, it had also used up a treasury loan of 800 mln rupees and part of foreign currency loans obtained for aircraft purchases and infrastructure needs, it said.     "Air Lanka is thus indebted to overseas lenders to the value of one billion rupees without any productive assets or collateral to provide for its repayment," the commission said.     It said the airline's losses were assessed at 5.59 billion rupees at March 31, 1986. But cumulative losses would reach 7.7 billion, implying Air Lanka lost money at the rate of 1.3 billion rupees a year between 1979, when it started, and 1986.     "These results must rank as the most devastating financial tragedy ever suffered in Sri Lanka's commercial history," the commission said.     The report said the airline's dangerously critical financial condition was due to uncontrolled spending -- particularly the way in which the airline expanded its fleet -- poor marketing, and extreme laxity in cost controls.     "It is clear to us that Air Lanka's misfortunes are largely of its own creation and that the reponsibility must rest primarily with the board of directors," it said.     Air Lanka had blamed its problems on the effects on tourism of Sri Lanka's Tamil separatist rebellion, the depreciating rupee and under-capitalisation. The commission dismissed these as invalid.     The report said most of the major problems stemmed from concentration of power by Captain S.R. Wikramanayake who held the posts of both chairman and managing director.     "It is mainly he who has to be responsible for whatever the status of Air Lanka is in today," it said.     Wikramanayake resigned with the other board members last November. He could not be contacted for comment.     The commission recommended that its findings should be passed "to the law officers of the state ... To ascertain if penal action is necessary against any or all members of the former board of Air Lanka or its management staff."     The panel recommended equity involvement of one or more foreign airlines in Air Lanka and the granting of maximum concessions to make the carrier attractive to foreign and local investment. It also suggested selling assets, such as two Boeing 747s financed by U.S. Dollar loans, to reduce debt.     It said Air Lanka and the government should renegotiate U.S. Dollar-denominated debts into other currencies which form the core of earnings and obtain lower interest rates. It also proposed negotiations for the return of two Lockheed Tristar L1011-500s now leased to British Airways before the leases expire next March.  REUTER &#3;

