 1-APR-1987 13:30:47.42

TALKS WILL NOT DELAY TRADE CURBS AGAINST JAPAN

President Reagan's move to impose stiff tariffs on Japanese goods stems from deep U.S. frustration over Japan's trade policy, and he has no intention of calling off the sanctions, trade analysts said.     U.S. officials put down any idea of delaying imposing the 300 mln dlrs in tariffs, despite seemingly contradictory comments by some Administration aides.     And, they add, a visit here next week by Japanese trade officials and a visit to Tokyo by a senior State Department official will likely do nothing to change U.S. minds.     "Do not expect the problem to be resolved or the sanctions not to go into effect," said a senior U.S. trade official.     Reagan last Friday announced that on April 17 he would raise tariffs on certain Japanese exports to penalize Japan for breaking a 1986 pact governing trade in semiconductors.     The United States says the Japanese have not lived up to their pledge to stop dumping semiconductors in third country markets at less than production costs or to open their home market to U.S. semiconductors. Semiconductors - tiny silicon memory chips - are integral components of modern electronic goods ranging from television sets and personal computers to guidance systems on aircraft.     Some U.S. officials had hinted that the United States and Japan might come to terms on their semiconductor dispute in time to cancel the planned tariffs, but this has now been dismissed by other senior officials.     They noted that negotiations over compliance with the pact had been going on for several months, with little success.     Japanese firms this week announced plans to cut chip output and increase U.S. chip imports, but U.S. officials said Japan's move was too late to stave off the American tariffs.     The tariffs are to be imposed after a period of public comment, but Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige and other officials have said neither the comment period or the U.S. and Japanese trade talks will serve to delay the tariffs.     Baldrige predicted the dispute would be resolved, but said "I'm sure the sanctions will go in before we work it out."     White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said that while he hoped something could be done to hold off the sanctions, "it probably is not likely."     And U.S. Trade Represenative Clayton Yeutter predicted that Japan would not be able to comply with the pact in time to hold off the new tariffs on goods including personal computers, television sets, power tools and electric motors.     Trade analysts said that in any case, the U.S.-Japanese semiconductor dispute was only one of many and trade frictions that will continue until Japan ended a policy of predatory pricing and opened its home market to foreign goods.     Other disputes include Japanese prevention of U.S. firms from taking part in building a new eight billion dlr airport near Osaka and selling a wide variety of goods in Japan, including many agriculture products.     A new trade row has now arisen over a Japanese decision to limit foreign participation in its telecommunication market.     U.S. officials have said the American telecommunications market is open to foreign firms and it was only fair trade to open the Japanese market to 33 per cent foreign participation, as Japan had previously agreed.     Britain has also protested the Japanese limitations.     American and Japanese negotiators are meeting to try to resolve the issue, officials said, but there was no sign of any early settlement.  Reuter &#3;

