25-MAR-1987 18:25:51.39

LOMAC TO PAY COSTS IN FIRST SUPERFUND AGREEMENT

Lomac Inc, a publicly traded company, will pay the U.S. and Michigan governments to help clean up a toxic waste site in the first major settlement under the 1986 Superfund-Two act, Michigan officials said.     Lomac will pay 17 mln dlrs to help clean the site, they said.     Stewart Freeman, Michigan's chief environmental attorney, told Reuters that Lomac, a new company, agreed to buy a chemical site near Muskegon, Mich., formerly operated by Bafors Nobel Inc, a bankrupt subsidiary of A.B. Nobel of Sweden.     The settlement was also the largest in history in a bankruptcy case involving environmental issues, Freeman said.     Other companies with Superfund disputes are watching the case closely, he said. "There are a number of very large corporations talking to the attorney general," Freeman said, referring to Michigan Atty. Gen. Frank J. Kelley.     Freeman would not identify the companies involved, saying he was not sure whether confidentiality agreements had been made.     Lomac will pay 25-26 mln dlrs in the settlement. Five mln dlrs will be paid to the federal and 12 mln dlrs will go to the Michigan government for cleanup at the site, the Lakeway Chemical plant.     The remaining funds will go to medical surveillance of former workers at the plant.     Under the agreement, a trust fund will be set up "to monitor the health of employees who may have been exposed to dangerous chemicals that were manufactured at the plant before 1971," the Michigan attorney general's office said in a statement.     Freeman said the medical fund was necessary because of possible medical problems among workers at the site.     The Muskegon facility was formerly used to manufacture dyes. Freeman said Bofors Nobel spent 50 mln dlrs cleaning up the site, formerly owned by Lakeway Chemical Co, before "the economic decision was made in Sweden" to place the operation in bankruptcy.     Under the agreement, Bofors Nobel will sell the site, which still holds an operating chemical plant, to Lomac. Some 150 employees work at the plant, a spokesman for the Michigan attorney general said.     The state attorney general said cleanup at the site will begin "immediately," and will be supervised by federal and state officials.     Freeman said the plant site is not presently listed on the federal superfund list, which qualifies the toxic waste site for federal cleanup funds.     He said federal officials will try to get the Muskegon facility onto the superfund list. If they are unable to do so, the 5.0 mln dlr federal portion of the settlement will be turned over to Michigan officials to be used in the cleanup, Freeman said.  Reuter &#3;

