 5-APR-1987 05:59:20.19

PARIS CLUB AGREES NEW AFRICAN DEBT INITIATIVE

Western creditor governments have reached agreement in principle on new proposals for easing the debt burden of sub-Saharan African countries, British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said.     He told journalists the accord, reached in the so-called Paris Club of western governments, calls for rescheduling the debts of sub-Saharan African countries over very long periods and on very favourable terms.     The proposals will be put forward for discussion at a meeting of the International Monetary Fund/World Bank Development Committee in Washington next week, he said.     Lawson said that under the proposals countries could have 15 or 20 years to repay their debts along with have a grace period.     But he added the favourable terms would not be offered indiscriminately to all nations in the region but granted on a case-by-case basis.     The Paris Club groups Western governments -- as opposed to commercial banks -- which are owed money by poorer nations.     Lawson was speaking after an informal gathering of European Community finance ministers and central bankers held to prepare for discussions on international monetary issues and Third World debt at next week's spring meetings of the IMF and World Bank.     French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said he had insisted at the gathering that developed countries take adequate account of the problems facing poorer nations that were trying to put their ailing economies in order.     He told journalists he would be unveiling new proposals for dealing with the Third World debt problem in  Washington.     He declined to give details but Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who hosted the talks, indicated that Balladur's proposals involved giving a greater role to a World Bank fund used to compensate developing countries for falls in the prices of their main commodities.     "The French ideas got a very sympathetic welcome," Eyskens told a news conference.     He said the European Community felt a new IMF (International Monetary Fund) report which forecasts inflation-adjusted economic growth of just 2.5 pct in the industrialised world this year, compared with 3.1 pct expected last autumn, was slightly too pessimistic.     Many economists believe industrialised countries need to grow by at least three pct a year if the world debt is to be brought under control.     Eyskens added the Community wanted to give "certain nuances" to the IMF report that would be constructive for dealing with the Third World debt problem.     However, Italian sources quoted Italian Treasury Minister Giovanni Goria as calling it scandalous that the meeting here did not include a discussion of what he called the problem of falling world demand.      He complained that West Germany was refusing to do enough to boost demand while the United States, suffering from a massive trade deficit, was unable to do anything in this direction.  REUTER &#3;

