 7-APR-1987 09:38:31.31

SPAIN'S SOCIALISTS HOLD OUT AGAINST STRIKERS

Widespread strikes have not seriously disrupted Spain's economy and wage restrictions are likely to continue as policy makers call for more austerity to help the country compete in the European Community (EC), foreign bankers and analysts said.     "The strikes were unexpected and in some cases spectacular, but they have had little effect on basic economic life," a U.S. Banker told Reuters. "The socialists can apply restrictive measures as long as the unions remain relatively weak."     The communist-led Workers' Commissions recently rejected a call by its leadership for a general strike while the ruling Socialist Party's trade union arm, the General Workers' Union, has refused to demonstrate with the communists on May 1.     The government's chief concern is inflation, which stood at 8.3 pct last year. The high inflation rate is especially damaging in view of Spain's trade balance with Europe, which turned into a deficit last year after entry to the EC.     Officials say the situation is rapidly deteriorating. The deficit of 450 mln dlrs in the first two months of 1987 was only slightly below the 515 mln dlr deficit for all of 1986.     The government has tightened up money supply, called for maximum 5.0 pct wage increases -- the same as this year's inflation target -- and is pursuing a program of industrial restructuring despite an unemployment rate of 21.5 pct.     Bankers say tight-money policies have attracted an avalanche of foreign capital that is cashing in on the strong peseta and high interest rates and those funds, converted into pesetas, are swelling money supply still further.     Bank of Spain governor Mariano Rubio said last week that money supply is expected to rise 14.3 pct in the first quarter compared with this year's eight pct target.     Most analysts agree that the government will have to accept inflation closer to six pct this year but they say there is little cause for alarm.     "The money supply should be back on track by the summer and we will begin to see lower interest rates," said Andres Trujillo, general manager of Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corp's Madrid branch.     He told Reuters the labour protests, despite occasional outbursts of violence, are not having a serious impact on foreign investment.     "Spain is a big and relatively underdeveloped market," he said. "It is still easier to compete from here than in other countries and this sporadic unrest is not likely to scare off investors."     Juan Jose Macaya, general manager of Investban SA, a portfolio management company, said he expects monetary objectives to be under control in two or three months.     "There has been some nervousness in the stock exchange but we see this as a short-term reaction," he said.  REUTER &#3;

