13-APR-1987 12:12:46.45

U.S. AUTOWORKERS SET FOR TOUGH BARGAINING ROUND

The United Automobile Workers Union, UAW, is asking local leaders to back a renewed drive for higher wages in upcoming bargaining with the car and other major industries while acknowledging that futher job losses are inevitable as traditional U.S. manufacturing shrinks.     The UAW will begin bargaining this summer on new contracts covering some 380,000 members at General Motors Corp, the world's largest corporation, and nearly 110,000 members at Ford Motor Co, the number two U.S. automaker.     National UAW labor contracts at both companies expire at midnight September 14.     The union is expected to chose one of the companies as a possible strike target in early September to concentrate its efforts.     UAW president Owen Bieber was loudly cheered by some 3,000 local delegates at a special bargaining strategy convention yesterday when he declared the union is ready to go to "war" against the major auto makers in support of its goals.     "It takes two to make peace, but only one to make war ... and if it's war, the UAW will be ready for it. War against the insecurity of layoff," the UAW chief said.     In a 101-page document proposing its 1987 collective bargaining program, the leadership of the 1.1 mln member union urged "full resumption of our traditional wage formula" as "a top priority in this round of bargaining."     But the union concedes that increased foreign competition, new technology and shifts to low-cost offshore production by U.S. manufacturers will continue to cut the number of workers in the motor vehicle and agricultural equipment industries.     Union leaders told Reuters the 1987 round of bargaining with GM and Ford will be one of the most difficult in the 51-year history of the union in view of GM's announced goal to close plants it deems non-competitive and to increase its purchase of parts from outside suppliers as part of a massive program to reduce its costs by 10 billion dlrs and reverse the profits decline it suffered the last two years.     At Ford, where a record 3.3 billion dlrs in profits last year swelled its cash reserves past eight billion dlrs, analysts say the company's healthy position could make it a tempting target for the union in its drive to increase wages.     Labor executives for both GM and Ford have said they will oppose any attempt to return to annual general wage increases that were dropped in 1982 when the Detroit-based industry was mired in a deep recession.     But the UAW, pointing to a three pct pay increase to be implemented later this year in the contract it negotiated with Chrysler Corp after a 1985 strike, said it intends to seek full reinstatement of annual percentage wage increases in this year's bargaining with GM and Ford.  Reuter &#3;

