 8-APR-1987 06:18:37.01

SOUTH KOREA STUDIES RESTRUCTURING FINANCIAL SECTOR

Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-je said South Korea is studying various measures to reform what he described as its underdeveloped bank and financial sector.     Kim, who is also economic planning minister, told a news conference the country's banks and finance houses had not developed to keep pace with their industrial counterparts.     He said two major factors had hampered the development of the financial sector -- high inflation and heavy government intervention in bank decision-making.     He said in the past the government had pressed banks to give soft loans to industry to boost economic growth.     Kim said the government would now give top priority to interest rate liberalisation. This could be achieved within several years, though not within one year.     He said liberalisation was possible because South Korea's current account had turned from a deficit to a surplus, which had brought in foreign funds and increased domestic savings.     The current account recorded a surplus of 4.65 billion dlrs in 1986 after a deficit of 890 mln dlrs in 1985.     But Kim said the government needed to reorganise much of the financial sector.     Kim said mergers of some financial companies and the upgrading of others to merchant banks or full banks were being considered by the financial development committee of the finance ministry. He did not elaborate but said he expected no drastic measures to be announced this year.     On liberalisation of the country's stock market, Kim said despite Seoul's determination to open it up, free investments there by foreigners would not be allowed in the near future because the market was currently "over-heated." He said this was due to ample liquidity created partly by the country's current account surplus.     Kim said the market was extremely vulnerable to a sudden influx of foreign funds because it was still very small in terms of size and numbers of shareholders.     "Opening up the capital market must wait until the vulnerability to such an influx is removed," he said.     He said only about one mln South Koreans, out of a population of 40 mln, invest in the Seoul market.  REUTER &#3;

