 6-MAR-1987 14:25:55.58

IRAN INVESTIGATORS SEEK REAGAN TAPES

The House and Senate committees investigating the Iran arms scandal said they would like to review tapes of phone conversations between President Reagan and White House officials, if such tapes exist.     The committees were responding to a magazine article that quoted unidentified "sources with first-hand knowledge of U.S. communications intelligence" as saying there is an archive of recorded conversations among Reagan administration officials, including the president.     The article in Progressive magazine also said the government had secretly monitored the home telephone of former National Security adviser Robert McFarlane after he had left government service in late 1985.     "According to sources with first hand knowledge of U.S. communications intelligence operations," the story said, "the McFarlane intercept grew out of a program that has produced a still-undisclosed archive of recorded conversations involving ... Reagan, Vice President George Bush, (fired National Security Council aide) Lt Col Oliver North, (former National Security Adviser) Adm John Poindexter, (former White House Chief of Staff) Donald Regan and other key figures in the Iran-contra arms scandal."     It said the monitoring was done for security and record purposes by the top-secret National Security Agency (NSA), and was apparently done with the consent of those monitored.     But White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater denied one premise of the article, saying, "The National Security Agency said it did not monitor any of McFarlane's conversations."     He did not comment on the other recorded conversations the Progressive article said were included in the program.     "Clearly we would be interested in taking a look if indeed such tapes exist," a Senate Iran committee aide told Reuters in response to the magazine article.     A spokesman for the House Iran committee said the panel would consider a request to the NSA for copies of the telephone-tap archive described in the article.     Several legislators said the tapes, if it is confirmed that they exist, could prove invaluable to the special House and Senate committees that were created in January to investigate Reagan's most damaging political crisis.     "This sort of evidence could be absolutely crucial in getting to the bottom of the affair," said Rep. Robert Kastenmeier, a Wisconsin Democrat and member of the House Intelligence Committee, told Reuters.  Reuter &#3;

