31-MAR-1987 02:24:52.49

CHINA RURAL INDUSTRY FACES PROBLEMS IN ADVANCING

Workers in China's rural factories are struggling against a variety of problems to maintain the momentum of progress since industrialisation of the countryside began in the 1970s.     "When I was a child, we had no bicycles. We went everywhere on foot. The land here is salty, so the harvests were not good. Money and food were inadequate. When it rained, the water leaked through the grass roof," said Li Wenxian, 31, of Hongshan in Zhejiang. Now he and other villagers live in large two-storey concrete homes with balconies and courtyards.     But still they face formidable difficulties. Many rural factories are unable to get the raw materials they need, or else they find they have become too expensive.     Gao Jianming, an official of Zhejiang's Rural Industry department, said Zhejiang firms scour China for raw materials, which sometimes they barter for finished goods.     The People's Daily this month reported about 60 pct of China's rural factories operate below capacity because of power shortages. It said many rural factories lose money because of these problems and difficulties in getting credit, poor quality of goods and competition from larger state firms.     "Electricity is short. In the busiest periods on the farms the factories work three to four days a week so that agriculture can have all the power it needs. But more power is available at night or on Sundays," Gao said.     Rural factories mostly operate outside official plans, which allocate raw materials under quota at cheap prices to state firms. They have to compete on the open market for raw materials whose prices are driven up by demand.     Li said Hongshan does not suffer from power shortages only because its cement factory provides cheap cement to the electricity supply department.     The raw materials of Hongshan's cement have to come hundreds of miles from central China by rail or canal, while its textile factories buy fabric from the far northeast.     The industrialisation of rural China began in the late 1970s, a key part of top leader Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms. Deng wanted to harness the manpower of the countryside, but keep it there and not draw it to the cities.     Hongshan set up factories and businesses because there was not enough work on the land for its 3,700 people. Now just 120 of its workers work full-time on the land. The rest work in 23 factories making cement, plastics and textiles.     The transformation of the rural economy is most noticeable along the eastern seaboard where communications are good, labour plentiful, land fertile and large markets nearby.     Gao said rural factories in Zhejiang now employ 25 pct of the province's labour force. In 1985 such factories, for the first time, produced more in value than the province's farms.     "The industrialising process is not over. When our farms are more mechanised, and not many are now, more labour will become available. There is a very big potential," Gao said.     Rural industry in Zhejiang has grown by more than 20 pct a year since 1980, faster than any other sector of the economy.     Goods from Hongshan's factories are sold all over China.     Villager Li said when Hongshan started building factories in 1975 it was illegal, but local leaders approved it on condition no state money was invested.     "We borrowed money to start our cement factory and have relied on our own resources since then," he said.     Another worker in a Hongshan tea-growing collective said before rural industrialisation there was no point in working hard, because most people earned the same.     "The laziest in the commune used to laugh at those of us who worked more, but got the same," she said.  REUTER &#3;

