26-MAR-1987 07:09:22.82

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - SWISS BANKING SECRECY

Swiss lawyers have largely headed off an attempt to restrict banking secrecy and curb their powers to act for clients despite the new, revised code of banking conduct agreed by the Bankers' Association this week, analysts said.     The "laundering" of drug and "insider dealing" money and controversy over accounts of the ousted Philippine and Haitian Presidents have hurt the standing of Swiss banks recently and strained international relations, particularly with the United States.     Critics said the new code fell well short of demands for reform, doing little to close a key loophole in the requirement that banks know the identity of their customers.     The Social Democratic party, a member of the ruling four-party coalition, which forced an unsuccesful 1984 referendum to curb banking secrecy, complained the code still fell short of the legal controls they wanted.     "It looks a slight improvement on paper, but the same tricks will still be possible in practice," Felix Meier, a senior party official, told Reuters.     In contrast, Swiss lawyers are happy with the new code.     "Apart from a few nuances, we are very pleased with the agreement," said Max Oesch, a senior official of the Swiss Lawyers Federation, which has fought a long campaign to prevent any curbs on lawyers' ability to act for their clients.     "It has shown that the 4,000 Swiss lawyers who do a good job should not be punished for the sake of getting at the one or two black sheep."     The role of lawyers has been at the centre of long running discussions on the renewal of the so-called "convention of diligence," a voluntary code of banking conduct introduced in response to a major banking scandal here in 1977.     With secrecy back in the public eye due to the Ferdinand Marcos case and a Swiss bank link to the recently busted "Pizza Connection" international heroin ring, officials at the Banking Commission said earlier this year they wanted a tightening of rules on anonymity.     However, the changes in the new code, which comes into operation in October, have been minor.     Clients will still be able to keep their identity secret from the banks provided their lawyer pledges that the relationship with his client "is not only of a temporary nature" and involves provision of other legal services.     The Lawyers' Association said this part of their business is very minimal anyway. In the majority of cases, people had perfectly legal private or commercial reasons for not wanting the bank to know their identity, Oesch said.     The Banking Commission, despite its earlier demand for a virtual abolition of the loophole, also said it was happy with the new code.     However, critics complain that the agreement does not go far enough to restrict the role of lawyers and could still be circumvented by criminals.     "No other group in society is allowed to regulate itself as much as the banks," complained Meier of the Social Democrats. "I hope that the Banking Commission exercises its proper control function."     However, other parts of the agreement won praise.     In particular, banks will also now be required to demand the identity anyone doing more than 100,000 Swiss francs worth of business with them, even if they do not have an account at the bank. Until now, the threshold was 500,000 francs.     Peter Kluser, head of the National Bank's legal department, which had argued for a lower limit, said the move could help combat the use of banks to "launder" or hide the criminal origin of money.     The new code also clarifies the legal status of a tribunal able to impose heavy fines on banks which do not respect the code.  REUTER &#3;

