 1-JUN-1987 11:37:13.23

BONN SEEN REJECTING NEW GROWTH MEASURES AT SUMMIT

West Germany will stand firm at next week's economic summit in Venice against foreign pressure to follow Japan's example of a multi-billion dlr package to stimulate the economy, West German officials said.     They conceded Japan's announcement last week of a 6,000 billion yen plan to bolster its economy would throw the spotlight back on West Germany, which would face redoubled calls from its partners to stimulate sluggish growth.     (See ECRA page for latest Economic Spotlights)     This view has already been voiced in Washington, where officials spoke at the weekend of behind-the-scenes consultations with Chancellor Helmut Kohl with the aim of securing a quick pledge to take action on the economy.     Italy's central bank governor Carlo Ciampi has also criticized West Germany's reluctance "to utilize its economic potential" for expansionary policies.     But West German officials said it was virtually inconceivable that Kohl would make any concessions in Venice despite a sharp economic downswing at the start of this year.     "There is just no room for manoeuvre for any economic moves," said one official, echoing statements by both Kohl and Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg.     Stoltenberg already has problems finding the cash to finance a series of tax cuts promised for 1990, and has said his budget is now stretched to the limit.     He is reluctantly letting government borrowing rise while federal income falls as a result of the tax cuts, which he hopes will stimulate growth and satisfy foreign critics.     "West Germany is exhausting to the furthest possible limit its fiscal scope as far as growth and employment is concerned," Stoltenberg said last month.     But U.S. Treasury Assistant Secretary David Mulford said Europeans and the U.S. Were worried by flagging German growth.     "We and others are concerned about the continued signs of weakness in the German economy," he said. Other U.S. Officials said France shared these worries.     Kohl will go to Venice only days after the publication of figures expected to show that the West German economy actually contracted in the first three months of 1987.     West Germany has pledged to review possible measures should further growth be endangered, but officials say they do not expect such a review to be necessary.     Bonn says the economy rebounded in the second quarter and it predicts growth of just under two pct for the year.     West Germany's trading partners are also likely to wait in in vain for any further pump-priming from the Bundesbank.     Bundesbank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger made clear today the bank would keep interest rates down, but said there were no plans for a cut in the Bundesbank's key discount rate, which, at three pct, is near historical lows.     Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl also spoke over the weekend of the need for all countries to play a role on the international economic scene.     "We have to recognise that there are also limits to economic growth in a country like Germany," he said.     This stance was taken by Kohl when he outlined expectations for the Venice summit in an interview last week.     Referring to West Germany's program of tax cuts and its low interest rates, he said, "With these policies we have made a significant contribution to growth and to a balanced development of the world economy."     Kohl expected no new initiatives from Venice, though he reckoned on confirmation of agreed policies, such as a pact made in Paris in February which sought to stabilize the dollar.     That pact involved a pledge from the United States and Japan, respectively to cut the massive American budget deficit and to stimulate Japanese demand.     Kohl said he would remind both Washington and Tokyo of those promises.  REUTER &#3;

