 4-MAR-1987 18:02:15.51

INTERNATIONAL BORROWING REACHES RECORD IN 1986

Record high borrowing of 376 billion dlrs in 1986 on international capital markets was supported by a large volume of debt refinancing and growing integration between national and international markets, the OECD said.     The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said in its latest Financial Market Trends report the 34 pct rise over 1985 volume was accompanied by major changes in the relative importance of the instruments used in international financing.     Straight bond offerings, equity related securities and euro-commercial paper programmes as a share in total financing rose to their highest level this decade. The markets for floating-rate notes and for note issuance facilities declined.     The OECD said another striking feature of international capital markets in 1986 was the unprecedented concentration of lending to the OECD group of western industrialised countries, which accounted for 90 pct of total borrowing.     Factors behind the heightened pace of activity included a notable decline in interest rates which boosted borrowing through the flotation of fixed-interest securities.     This in turn was stimulated by growing familiarity with new techniques such as interest rate and currency swaps.     Stockmarket buoyancy supported the expansion of equity-related bond issues and favoured the expansion of a rapidly expanding market for euro-equities.     A slowdown in net demand for funds by sovereign borrowers was more than offset by a large volume of refinancing operations induced by improved market conditions and stronger debt management policies. Growing integration with national markets meant the arrival of a large number of new players on international markets.     It added the development of a smoothly-functioning market for short-term euro-notes made committee and non-underwritten issuance facilities an increasingly popular alternative to traditional forms of bank lending.     Turning to 1987, the OECD pointed to indications of a possible slowdown of international markets' expansion and possibly less easy borrowing terms in a number of market areas.     It said many market participants saw little scope for a further decline in long-term rates and anticipate a slowdown in the pace of fixed-rate activity in the months ahead.     It saw little reason for a turnaround in the decline in demand of recent years, although it was likely more borrowers would try to make use of cost-reducing opportunities provided by the market for euro-commercial paper.     "It remains to be seen however to what extent the ECP market will be ready to absorb a significant volume of paper from lower-rated borrowers," the report said, adding that any major advance in the euro-note market's absorptive capacity would require a significantly broader investor base.  Reuter &#3;

