16-MAR-1987 04:46:35.82

U.S. BANKER URGES FASTER JAPANESE LIBERALISATION

Japan should step up the pace of its financial liberalisation if it wants to become a world financial centre equal to New York or London, a leading U.S banker said.     "For Tokyo to become the third link in an international capital markets triangle, it will need to create an environment more hospitable to international finance than currently exists," Robert Binney, senior vice-president of Chase Manhattan Bank N.A., Told a group of Japanese members of parliament and financial leaders.     Binney said Japan must liberalise its financial markets not just to attract more jobs, capital and taxable income, but also to recycle effectively its vast trade surpluses to help counter growing protectionism in the United States.     He called on Japan to remove all controls on deposit interest rates soon and to remove obstacles to the growth of its offshore market. He also said it should fully deregulate its short-term money markets, develop comprehensive futures markets, further open the Tokyo Stock Exchange to foreign membership and remove fixed rate brokerage commissions.     Binney also urged Japan to abolish Article 25 of its Securities and Exchange Law which, like the U.S. Glass Steagall Act, separates commercial from investment banking.     At the same meeting Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corp president Eugene Atkinson urged Japan to fully de-regulate short-term interest rates, introduce commercial paper and open long-term government bond markets to an auction system.     He said Japan should allow securities firms to participate in foreign exchange business and develop over-the-counter stock options and futures. Short-selling of Japanese government cash bonds was a vital hedging mechanism, he added.     The group of some 60 Japanese legislators and financial leaders which Atkinson and Binney addressed was recently formed to study ways in which Japan should promote liberalisation of its financial markets.     "We should not leave such matters solely to government bureaucrats," Masao Hori, Chairman of the lower house finance committee, told the group.  REUTER &#3;

