23-MAR-1987 14:19:17.97

TECHNOLOGY/ATT'S <T>  EFFORTS TO SELL COMPUTERS

American Telephone and Telegraph Co is another illustration of a maxim already learned by several other huge corporations - that success in one segment of the electronics industry is very difficult to translate into success selling computers.     ATT is learning the hard way that all the resources and technological advances in the world can not make up for weak marketing and sluggish responses to one of the most rapidly changing and competitive industries.     Consequently, ATT will try again this week to convince the world that it is serious about computers, after four years in the business, by announcing a set of new products and showcasing its latest computer chief, Vittorio Cassoni, formerly of ATT's Italian affiliate Ing. C. Olivetti and Co.     Industry consultants said ATT will announce a faster addition to its 3B line of minicomputers, improved connectivity products, a new version of its Unix software operating system and assortered peripheral equipment, including a laser printer.     The announcements, however, hold "minimal significance" for both ATT and the industry, said Forrester Research consultant John McCarthy. "They are just never going to be a significant player in this market as long as computers play a subjagated role to the (telephone) network," he said.     ATT, the world's largest company before its breakup in 1984 and still the pre-eminent phone company in the United States, has only been able to carve out a fractional share of the computer industry.     Last year was particularly disastrous for the company's data systems division, which posted a pre-tax operating loss for the year of 1.2 billion dlrs (ATT as a whole reported a 1986 profit of 139 mln, after a 1.7 billion dlr charge against earnings, down from 1.56 billion dlrs the prior year).     Morale is down throughout the company after ATT reduced its work force by 32,000 people last year, leaving a work force of 290,000, but analysts say the situation in the computer division is particularly bad, especially since the computer merged its computer and network sales forces.     Meanwhile, the company's most successful product, the 6300 personal computer, ran out of steam in the last three months of the year after gaining some five pct of the market.     "ATT seemed to lose their focus with the 6300," said consultant Norman DeWitt, president of Dataquest Inc. "There were no major product enhancements last year and a perception developed in the marketplace that the product was tired."     Meanwhile, the 6300 had to face increasingly aggressive competition from smaller companies that undercut ATT on price and offered more technologically advanced machines. "I would have to say that, after a fast start, ATT just lost momentum on the pc side," said DeWitt.     The 3B line of minicomputers has never found great acceptance in the market and ATT's Unix operating system, though loved by scientists and engineers, has yet to put a serious dent in the much more widely used systems adopted by industry giant International Business Machines Corp <IBM>.     By last fall, ATT executives found themselves trying to defuse widespread speculation that ATT was going to abandon or sell off the computer division and the company turned over all responsibility for personal computers to Olivetti, in which its owns a 23.5 pct stake.     But analysts said the company's image was dealt another blow last week when ATT senior vice president James Edwards, who preceded Cassoni as head of the computer division, announced he was leaving to become president of TelWatch Inc, a small developer of systems to manage networks.     Several other executives have also left in recent months, including John Walsh, head of the 3B minicomputer line. And, although the 43-year old Cassoni has considerable experience running Olivetti's successful computer operations, analysts expressed concern about his approach to ATT's business.     Cassoni has said he wants to acheive recognizable success in both within ATT and in the marketplace within two years and it is widely assumed that he will rapidly abandon any product that does not meet those profitability goals.      The problem with such a strategy, analysts said, is that it may not give certain products enough time to become established and customers may be reluctant to buy a product that could be discontinued in a year or two.     ATT chairman James Olson took a slightly more conservative view of the computer division recently. He lauded Cassoni's two year goal but said he expects the data systems division to turn around within five years.     Olson denied the perception that ATT was retreating "to the womb, going back to our old business" of long distance telephone systems at the expense of the computer division.  Reuter &#3;

