29-JUN-1987 09:06:31.51

INTERNATIONAL SPOT OIL PRICES FIRM ON OPEC ACCORD

OPEC's weekend decision to cut planned oil output levels for second half 1987 has renewed market confidence in the oil price outlook for the rest of the year and boosted international spot prices, oil traders said.     Spot crude prices are now standing 80-85 cents a barrel higher than at the start of the OPEC meeting last Thursday and could continue their rise in the next few weeks, they said.     The new optimism springs from the agreement reached by OPEC ministers in Vienna on Saturday to fix a July-December output ceiling of 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd).     At its previous meeting in December, OPEC set a provisional 16.6 mln bpd output limit for the third quarter but proposed a sharp rise to 18.3 mln in the fourth. The ceilings were to back up its newly restored fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.     When signs first emerged last Friday that OPEC was contemplating cutting the planned fourth quarter ceiling, spot prices of the most widely traded crude oil, Britain's Brent Blend, surged 30-40 cents a barrel.     Traders said the trend continued in a cautious rally this morning in London, taking quoted levels up to around 19.25/35 dlrs, compared with 18.45/50 dlrs in the middle of last week.     Most traders on international oil markets reacted bullishly to news of the final agreement. They forecast tight supplies later in the year, when demand for oil increases with the onset of the Northern Hemisphere winter, and further rises in spot prices.     "There will be a scramble for oil in the third and fourth quarters of this year" one trader said. "In the past three months we have already seen a rise in demand, particularly from the U.S., And I expect to see even higher prices" he added.     Mehdi Varzi, analyst with stockbroker Kleinwort Grieveson in London, agreed.     Varzi told Reuters that OPEC was if anything too cautious in setting the new output ceilings. "There is now a great chance that Brent crude oil will hit 20 dlrs a barrel in the next month," he said.     Laurie Law, analyst at E.F. Hutton and Co Inc in New York, said over the weekend that she saw the spot price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) rallying to around 22 dlrs by the end of the year from just over 20 dlrs now.     WTI, the U.S. Benchmark crude, usually fetches a premium of 80 cents to one dlr over Brent. So far this year, spot Brent has held mostly between 18 and 19 dlrs a barrel.     But some traders, fearing continued over-production by some OPEC members, sounded a note of caution over the new accord.     Iraq has again refused to be a party to the agreement because other OPEC ministers turned down its repeated demand for the same production quota as its Gulf War enemy Iraq.     In recent months Iraq has been producing 500,000 bpd above its assigned quota, and it could begin pumping a further 500,000 bpd when a new export pipeline comes on stream in September.     According to Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah, actual OPEC production in the fourth quarter could be well above the official ceiling at nearly 18 mln bpd.  REUTER &#3;

