  9-MAR-1987 14:04:16.31

MCDONNELL <MD> SAID TALKS AT INFORMAL STAGE

McDonnell Douglas Corp said recent talks with Airbus Industries about joint development and production of a new jetliner with the European aircraft manufacturing consortium have been very informal.     "If there have been talks, they were casual at best," said a source at the company. "There is nothing going on that would lead to immediate or near-term collaboration" on a new plane.     Senior officials at the aerospace firm's St. Louis headquarters were unable to comment more specifically on weekend published reports from Europe that talks about a joint venture have resumed after they broke off last fall.     McDonnell Douglas and Airbus last spring and summer had discussed jointly developing and building a long-range aircraft to compete with Boeing Co <BA> 747 wide-body jetliner, or its successor. Talks ended when neither side wanted to forego plans to launch its own widebody jetliner projects - McDonnell Douglas with its MD-11 and Airbus with its A340.     McDonnell Douglas has since launched the MD-11 jetliner, a successor to its DC-10, and has more than 100 orders and options.     Airbus wants to launch its program this spring and is now seeking customers for the long-range A340 and a companion plane, the shorter-range A330.     "I don't want to say we're not interested, because we are in any collaboration that benefits McDonnell Douglas without it giving up anything," the source told Reuters. "There just haven't been in-depth discussions."     He said any joint venture would not affect the MD-11 program already underway.     McDonnell Douglas last month claimed Airbus tried to overturn pledges made by airlines to buy the MD-11 by offering cut-rate prices for the A340.     The firm said Airbus, in an effort to line up enough customers to launch the program, is engaging in "predatory practices" with prices substantially below those needed to recover the cost of developing and building the plane.     U.S. government and aerospace industry officials believe Airbus can offer low prices because the consortium gets government subsidies that cover many of its costs.     The Reagan Administration decided last month to consult the General Agreement on Tariff and Trade, GATT, to determine whether Airbus is unfairly subsidized. Under GATT rules an enterprise can be subsidized but only if it will make a profit.     U.S. officials say Airbus countries have poured 15 billion dlrs into Airbus since the early 1970's and the consortium has yet to make a profit.  Reuter &#3;

