 9-APR-1987 16:20:04.65

ARGENTINA WARNS IT MAY CUT OFF TALKS WITH BANKS

Argentina's Economy Minister Juan Sourrouille said the "narrow interest" of creditor banks was holding up an accord to stretch out debt repayments and warned Argentina may break off negotiations.     "It is inadmissible that the private narrow interest of some banks threatens to turn into an insurmountable obstacle for a policy we have agreed with the international community," Sourrouille said.     Speaking to the International Monetary Fund's Interim Committee meeting, Sourrouille said Argentina had given ample proof that it is negotiating seriously with the banks.     "Today, with that same responsibility, we are clearly stating that it will be imposible for us to continue negotiating on that basis."     A monetary source who heard Sourrouille's speech from a vantage point close to U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, said Baker turned to one of his advisors to ask for the names of banks that Sourrouille said were stalling on an agreement.     "Let's give them a call right away," the source quoted Baker as saying.     Sourrouille reminded the Interim Committee that the IMF last February approved a 1.3-billion-dlr stand-by loan and a longer-term credit, known as an extended Fund Facility for another 500,000 dlrs.     But he said that despite Argentina's "disciplined effort" to achieve inflation-free economic growth, it was unable to obtain IMF payouts due to the link between that arrangement and settlement of a separate agreement with creditor banks.     Sourrouille  stated flatly that the banks were flouting a long-established practice under which debtor countries which reached agreements on economic reforms with the Fund were a good credit risk for the banks.     "In other words, facts are demonstrating that the current debt strategy is showing that an IMF agreement is only a weak signal for the beginning of another discussion (with the banks)," he stated.     He added the fact that the strategy is not working was also demonstrated when governments that approved Argentina's program had to join in a bridge loan for his country.     Sourrouille stated that Argentina has met IMF requirements regarding its balance of payments and its monetary and fiscal policies.     Despite this Sourrouille said, "What we are facing is the inexplicable demands (from the banks) that are blocking negotations."     Argentina, with a foreign debt of 50 billion dlrs, has been seeking to reschdule 24 billion dlrs in "old debt" and another 4.2 billion dlrs that had been refinanced in 1985.     The minister also said there were two issues separating Argentina from an accord with creditor banks, one was a minimum difference on the interest rate margin above international levels.     The other condition, of more concern, were suggestions by the banks that would upset the country's financial system.     Monetary sources said creditor banks have been offering Argentina the London Interbank rate (Libor) plus 7/8 pct, which they gave Venezuela in a recent refinancing agreement.     The sources said Argentina is committed to winning the lower spread Mexico gained last year of 13/16 pct above Libor.  Reuter &#3;

