 6-MAR-1987 13:46:08.88

TALKING POINT/ PAPER STOCKS

The attempt by International Paper Co <IP> and Stone Container Co <STO> to raise linerboard prices could stick, industry analysts said, citing strong demand and tight capacity. But they said rising inventories hurt the odds.     "It remains to be seen whether the increases will be accepted, but I think the odds are better than 50-50 they will," Mark Rogers, paper analyst for Prudential Bache said.     Mead Corp <ME> and Union Camp Corp <UCC> said they are also considering price increases.     Rogers, who has been aggressively recommending Stone and International Paper for several months, said the increases could stick because plants are running full tilt and little new capacity is coming on stream.     "The operating rates in linerboard are running at about 97 to 98 pct of capacity, but demand continues to climb," Gene Cartledge, chairman and chief executive officer of Union Camp said "The industry is essentially sold out."     Cartledge said domestic linerboard shipments in January hit about 1.6 mln tons, six pct higher than January 1986, while exports hit 170,000 tons, three to four pct higher.     Nevertheless, rising inventories could nip the increase in the bud, Lawrence Ross, forest products analyst for Paine Webber, said.     "Containerboard inventories have been growing for the past three months," Ross said. "Over that time inventories rose from 4.8 weeks worth of supplies to 5.9 weeks most recently."     Also, Ross said that the Jacksonville, Fla., paper mill, 49 pct owned by Stone, is planning to come on stream again soon, which may help alleviate some of the supply constraints. "The plant's capacity, by itself, is about two pct of the industry total," Ross said.     But, Rogers said the Jacksonville mill "won't be enough" to significantly ease tight capacity this year. The price increase is necessary, he said, to attract more investment.     Rates of return in the industry have been too low in recent years to merit inventment in new capocity, Rogers said, adding that he sees prices climbing to the 400 dlrs-a-ton range this year.     "The consensus on the Street is changing," he said, "from whether there will be increases to when is the next increase and how much."  Reuter &#3;

