 3-APR-1987 00:56:20.61

JAPANESE BANKS EXPAND HONG KONG PRESENCE

At a time when Britain is threatening to revoke the license of Japanese banks in retaliation for restrictive trade practices, Hong Kong is rolling out the welcome mat to Japan.     The British colony last week issued a banking licence to the Bank of Fukuoka Ltd, making it the 24th Japanese bank here.     Japan has the largest banking contingent in Hong Kong, followed by the U.S. With 22 banks. Eleven Japanese banks have representative offices here and Japanese institutions operate 34 deposit-taking companies (DTCs).     Assistant banking commissioner K.K Wong told Reuters: "There are no special favours towards the Japanese...But because of Japan's strong economy and currency, they easily meet our requirement on assets (14 billion U.S. Dlrs)."     The Japanese control the largest share of assets of the financial institutions here but incorporated elsewhere, with 980.5 billion H.K. Dlrs at end-1986, or 57.5 pct of the total.     "Hong Kong authorities welcome Japanese banks," said Haruo Kimura, assistant general manager of the Bank of Tokyo. "But the U.S. And Britain are unhappy with the slow liberalisation of the Tokyo financial market."     Japanese bankers said Hong Kong offers good business opportunities, especially in China trade, to Japanese banks who are following their clients' international expansion.     "As their clients become more international, they have to keep up and follow them," said Yutaka Toda, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank's general manager here.     "We can have access to local traders and regional corporations," said Bank of Tokyo's Kimura. "We can also pick up business with China."     Bankers said more Japanese banks are on the way. An influx of Japanese banks began in the late 1970s when the government lifted a moratorium on new licences. But newcomers are allowed one branch each and only the Bank of Tokyo, Sanwa Bank and Sumitomo Bank have more than one branch.     Because of this limitation, Japanese banks have mostly concentrated on wholesale business.     "It is very difficult to compete with those giants such as the Hongkong Bank and the Bank of China," said Kimura of the Bank of Tokyo.     Bank of Tokyo has the largest Japanese bank network here with seven branches, while Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp and the Bank of China groups each have hundreds of branches.     To broaden their client and deposit base, some Japanese banks have taken equity in local banks. The latest such move was Dai-Ichi Kangyo's increase of its stake in Chekiang First Bank last year to 95 pct from 33 pct.     Tokai Bank, Fuji Bank and Mitsubishi Bank also have interests in small local banks.     But Mitsubishi, not content with its single-branch licence and a 25 pct stake in the small Liu Chong Hing Bank, bought Mercantile Bank Ltd's multi-branch licence early this year.     "We will open one more branch in (Hong Kong's district of) Kowloon soon, to better serve our clients on the other side of the harbour," said Mitsubishi Bank general manager Takeshi Tange.     Their weakness in the retail market forces Japanese banks to rely on the interbank market for funding.     Government data show that despite their large share of total assets, Japanese banks had only 54.4 billion dlrs in deposits at end-1986, or 17.1 pct of deposits of banks in Hong Kong incorporated elsewhere.     "Most Japanese banks' international lendings in the region are booked in Hong Kong," said a Japanese banker who declined to be named.     He said it is mainly for tax reasons, adding that assets such as loans booked in Hong Kong are not subject to Japanese tax.     Japanese banks are barred by the Tokyo government from issuing Eurobonds, but their Hong Kong subsidiaries can tap the Euromarket and lend the funds to the parent.     Bankers said this role could be undermined by a five pct capital adequacy ratio that goes into effect next year, requiring many DTC's to increase their capital. Many Japanese banks are seeking special treatment for their largely offshore operations or a different risk calculation for their assets.     "I don't think this will stop them from coming here," said a banker. "But it may mean they have to conduct some of their offshore funding operations elsewhere."  REUTER &#3;

