12-MAR-1987 23:37:15.33

ADSTEAM LOOKING TO BRITISH MARKET FOR INVESTMENT

Diversified industrial and investment group The Adelaide Steamship Co Ltd <ADSA.S> said it was looking to the British market for future investment in view of high share prices and interest rates in Australia.     "Because of lower interest rates and improved economic statistics, we believe the U.K. At the present time offers better value and we hold strategic investments in that market," it said in a statement.     Adsteam did not name any British investments but it has disclosed a stake in Blue Circle Industries Plc <BCIL.L>, last stated by Adsteam in London at 6.85 pct in late February.     Adsteam said it was continuing to look for investment opportunities both in Australia and overseas, but with the Australian stock market at record levels, opportunities to acquire companies on reasonable investment criteria were limited.     As earlier reported, Adsteam will raise 228.5 mln dlrs for working capital and investment both in Australia and overseas through a one-for-five rights issue at 11.50 dlrs a share.     "We expect to enter 1988 in a highly liquid position and will be looking to take advantage of investment opportunities as they arise," it said.     Nevertheless, Adsteam said it continues to be a large investor in the Australian market through its equity-accounted associates and through other major investments.     "We have enjoyed a very substantial increase in the market value of our investments over the course of this financial year, but we are concerned at the economic fundamentals which persist in Australia, particularly the high interest rates which currently apply," it said.     Adsteam also said it had hedged part of its Australian stock market portfolio in the futures market and had hedged all foreign currency borrowings.     Realised losses from futures hedging have been brought to account as extraordinary items but unrealised gains from investments significantly exceed realised and unrealised losses on hedging, Adsteam said.     In its earlier reported first half ended December 31, Adsteam posted an extraordinary loss of 20.39 mln dlrs against a 13.79 mln profit a year earlier.     Equity-accounted net profit before extraordinaries rose to 75.05 mln dlrs from 55.68 mln a year earlier.  REUTER &#3;

