19-OCT-1987 16:23:56.07

YUGOSLAV ECONOMIC PLAN SEEN FACING HURDLES

Yugoslavia's ambitious economic recovery and anti-inflation plan faces major hurdles before it can be implemented, Yugoslav economists and Western diplomats said.     Prime Minister Branko Mikulic on Monday proposed new taxes hitting high income earners, moonlighters, property and interest on savings as part of new government plans to rein in the country's 123 pct inflation.     He also proposed price and wage restraint and the trimming of repayments on the 20 billion dlr foreign debt in line with currency earning abiltiy.     "The taxes will anger many Yugoslavs struggling with soaring prices and will be resisted in Parliament," a Western diplomatic source said. Yugoslav economists said Mikulic's draft plans left many questions unanswered.     "It was a list of goals, not concrete measures," said a senior Yugoslav economist at a leading Yugoslav research institute.     The state news agency Tanjug was more optimistic. It said the proposals indicated "real economic reforms" were coming.     Further details of the program, which Mikulic summarised in Parliament, are to appear in the days ahead, and the draft has to be debated and voted on by deputies in November.     "The goals are good," a leading Belgrade economist said. "No one can argue with that. But the million dollar question, as with all government programs here, is how they will be implemented."     Zoran Popov, senior research fellow at The Belgrade Institute for Industrial Economy said the existing system made many of the proposals difficult to put into effect.     "A change in the the system of taxation requires changes in the constitution," he said. "Mikulic's speech tells us what he wants to do, but not how."     "It may be anti-inflationary," one diplomat said. "But the question is how can you tax a black economy and how will the government find out who has two jobs or more than one home."     Economists and diplomats said the proposals could be resisted by deputies from several of Yugoslavia's constituent republics and provinces in defence of regional interests.     Such resistance has blocked the nationwide implementation of federal government economic policy on many past occasions.  Reuter &#3;

