16-MAR-1987 07:17:25.18

PANEL HEAD SAYS MARCOS STILL CONTROLS LARGE FUNDS

The head of a Philippine panel charged with recovering illegal wealth accumulated by former President Ferdinand Marcos and his associates said they still controlled large funds circulating in the country's economy.     Ramon Diaz, Chairman of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) told Reuters in an interview: "There is every reason to believe that the cronies and President Marcos and his family were able to hide millions and millions of pesos before they fled. As a matter of fact we have been able to get hold of crates of newly printed currency."     Diaz did not give figures, but said: "We believe they still have a lot of funds. These are the funds that they will use in the coming elections. These are the funds that they used to stage those coups."     He was referring to congressional elections scheduled for May 11 and to the three coup attempts faced by President Corazon Aquino since she toppled Marcos a year ago.     Diaz said the PCGG so far has recovered cash and property valued at about eight billion pesos and had sequestered shares of stock of at least 286 firms. "We have achieved more than what we thought we could achieve in one year," he added.     The government last week announced that businessman Antonio Floirendo, an associate of Marcos known as the "banana king," had turned over 70 mln pesos in cash to the PCGG and promised to surrender titles to property in New York and Hawaii worth another 180 mln pesos. In return, the PCGG said it had lifted freeze and sequestration orders on Floirendo's properties.     Diaz said there were already similar preliminary agreements with another Marcos associate, Roberto Benedicto. He said Benedicto had surrendered control of several newspapers and radio and television stations and agreed to PCGG control of the boards of a bank and a hotel he owned in the Philippines.     Diaz said the PCGG based its estimates of illegal wealth on income-tax returns and land titles of Marcos associates. "Anything over and above reported income -- that's what we have to recover," he said.     He said a decision by the PCGG last week to probe street certificates held by brokers at Manila's two stock exchanges was prompted by suspicion that illegal funds were in circulation.     Street certificates describe securities held in the name of a broker or another nominee instead of a customer so as to permit easy trading or transfer.  Reuter... &#3;

