13-APR-1987 06:42:07.92

ELECTION RESULT MAY DELAY JAPAN ECONOMIC STIMULUS

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) setback in Sunday's nationwide local elections may force the government to water down its controversial proposal for a five pct sales tax and undermine its commitment to stimulating the economy, private economists said.     The LDP's failure to win seats in some crucial local constituencies will weaken the government's ability to push through its tax plan, and without a compromise tax proposal the budget for fiscal 1987/88 ending March 31 is unlikely to be passed soon, they said.     Without the budget, the government would also be hard-pressed to come up with an effective package to stimulate the economy as pledged at Group of Seven meetings in Paris in late February and in Washington last week, they said.     Opposition protests against the sales tax have stalled parliamentary debate on the budget for weeks and forced the government to enact a stop-gap 1987/88 budget that began early this month.     "The LDP's election setback will have an enormous impact on the already faltering economy," said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute.     Takahashi said that behind the LDP's poor showing was public discontent with the government's high-handed push for tax reform and its lack of effective policies to cope with economic woes caused by the yen's appreciation.     "This explains why the LDP failed to regain governorships in the most hotly contested constituencies of Fukuoka and Hokkaido, where the shipbuilding and steel industries are suffering heavily from the yen's extended rise," he said.     Takahashi said the government should delay introduction of the sales tax for one or two years beyond its original starting date of January 1988 and implement tax cuts now.     Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist Masahiko Koido also said he favours watering down the proposed sales tax while suggesting the government boost public works spending by modifying its tight fiscal policies.     "The local election results were a signal the economy now needs government action to take clear-cut fiscal measures," he said, adding that such moves would help the world economy as well as Japan's.     For the last five years or so, the government has stuck to a tight fiscal policy in a bid to halt the issue of deficit financing bonds by fiscal 1990/91, economists said.     If the LDP election setback leads to a scaled down sales tax proposal, the government would have to find other revenue sources to help finance the planned tax cuts and a package of measures to stimulate the economy, the economists said.     Koido said the government could raise additional revenue by selling shares in public corporations such as Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. But it should issue additional bonds to ensure a more stable source of funds, he said.     "It may run counter to its avowed policy of balancing the budget, but it can do so on a short-term basis," he said.     Takahashi of Mitsubishi Research also agreed with the need for the government to float more bonds to raise funds needed for economic expansion.     He said additional government borrowing would place no burden on the capital market because it has amassed huge excess funds and government bond prices have risen to record levels lately.     "The market is just waiting for more new government bond issues," he said.  REUTER &#3;

