11-MAR-1987 08:48:24.70

U.S. BANKS, THRIFTS FACE CHANGE FROM SENATE BILL

U.S. banks and savings and loan institutions could face important changes as a result of emergency legislation adopted overwhelmingly by the Senate Banking Committee.     The bill approved 12-6 yesterday would rescue the underfunded federal deposit insurance fund for thrifts and temporarily halt new developments in the provision of financial services.     The bill, which goes to the full Senate, will infuse a badly needed 7.5 billion dlrs into the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., which insures accounts of depositors.     It also limits banks' ability to sell securities and restricts a new breed of competitor, the so-called nonbank banks.     Committee Chairman William Proxmire, the bill's sponsor, promised the committee will work on a long-term plan for new developments in the financial services industry, which is confronted by growing competition from firms in other commercial centers, such as London and Tokyo.     "This bill we are taking up today is the first step in this effort," the Wisconsin Democrat said.     But Sen. Jake Garn, the committee's top Republican, chastised senators for imposing temporary restrictions on financial providers.     "It is time to forget the special interests," the Utah senator said.     Garn failed to win approval for an amendment that would have eliminated virtually all of the bill's provisions except the rescue for FSLIC.     A major controversy focused on nonbank banks, which offer limited financial services of a bank and avoid most banking regulations.     Proxmire succeeded in closing a loophole which would permit new nonbank banks and thrifts until Congress passes comprehensive bank reform, a move welcomed by the bank industry.     But at the same time, the bill set a moratorium on a number of new activities that banks may undertake, including selling insurance, securities and real estate for one year after the bill becomes law.     The 7.5 billion dlr rescue for FSLIC represented a compromise between a larger amount sought by the Reagan administration and a smaller figure proposed by the thrift industry.     The U.S. League of Savings Institutions, an industry group, feared approval of a larger amount for FSLIC would lead to a surge of closings of thrifts by federal superviors.     "We hope the Congress will finally settle on a lower number," William O'Connell, president of the league, said after the committee voted.  Reuter &#3;

