25-MAR-1987 11:27:09.65

SOME FIRMS CURB COMMODITIES BUSINESS WITH DREXEL

<Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc> said some Wall Street firms have limited their commodities trading business with Drexel.     Rumors circulated in financial and commodity markets yesterday that units of <Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc>, Salomon Inc <SB> and <Goldman, Sachs and Co> had restricted commodities business with Drexel because of its involvement in the government's insider trading probe.     In response to questions, a Drexel spokesman said, "Any questions raised about our credit conditions are ridiculous as those few competitors who have instituted restrictions for whatever their motives well know."     Securities industry sources said the three firms were restricting their business with Drexel particularly in oil and precious metals. The firms have restricted business in some areas, but not others, the sources said.     All three firms declined to comment, and the Drexel spokesman did not identify the companies by name.     Drexel and some officials, including Michael Milken, head of its "junk bond" department, were subpoenaed following the government's settlement of insider trading charges against arbitrager Ivan Boesky.     Securities industry sources said the three firms were restricting their business with Drexel particularly in oil and precious metals. The firms have restricted business in some areas, but not others, the sources said.     All three firms declined to comment, and the Drexel spokesman did not identify the companies by name.     Drexel and some officials, including Michael Milken, head of its "junk bond" department, were subpoenaed following the government's settlement of insider trading charges against arbitrager Ivan Boesky.     "Our commodity trading group, <DBL Trading Corp>, is operating normally and very profitably. It has had absolutely no disruption in its trading and operation," a Drexel spokesman said.     He added, "the financial picture of the firm as a whole has never been healthier. We have capital of 1.9 billion dlrs, the fourth largest on Wall Street, equity of 1.3 billion dlrs, and excess net capital of one billion dlrs."     "People who invent and circulate rumors about any financial institution, including Drexel Burnham, are doing a serious, grave disservice to the investing public and marketplace," the spokesman said.  Reuter &#3;

