 7-APR-1987 15:33:13.40

BRAZIL SETS UP SPECIAL DEBT COMMISSION

Brazil has set up a special debt commission, headed by Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, to be responsible for renegotiating Brazil's 109 billion dollar foreign debt, officials said.     The principal negotiator on the commission, created by President Jose Sarney, will be former foreign minister Ramiro Saraiva Guerreiro.     Officials said Guerreiro would be joined on the commission by eight senior officials, including a representative of the National Security Council.     The creation of the commission is intended to underscore the Brazilian government's contention that the debt issue is essentially political and that a political solution must be found to the problem.     On February 20 Brazil suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dollar foreign bank debt to try to force the issue.     Creditor banks, however, have signalled that they are equally determined to resist Brazil's demands for debt relief.     Yesterday Funaro travelled to the United States for fresh debt negotiations with creditors deeply angered by Brasilia's suspension of interest payments.     Funaro was due to hold talks in New York today with the private sector, before travelling to Washington for the semi- annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.     Officials said the new commission would start work in earnest when Funaro returns from the United States.     Yesterday Funaro called for a new forum for discussion of the foreign debt. He suggested direct participation of the governments of creditor countries in debt talks.     In negotiations on commercial debt, talks have traditionally been restricted to banks.     The creation of the new commission brings Brazil's highly professional Foreign Ministry much more into the forefront on the debt issue than it has been in the past.     During the period of military rule, which ended in 1985, the Foreign Ministry played a very minor role in debt policy.     But the new commission has diplomats among its members and the chief negotiator, Saraiva Guerreiro, is a seasoned envoy with a long diplomatic career.  Reuter &#3;

