 7-APR-1987 18:32:41.76

REUTER BUSINESS NEWS HIGHLIGHTS, APRIL 7

Stocks fell steeply from the 2400 level in an avalanche of selling unleashed by a jump in credit market interest rates and renewed fears that the dollar could fall further. After first extending the rally that hit an all-time closing high of 2405.54 Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average skidded 44.60 points to 2360.94, the fifth-largest point drop on record.     ---     WASHINGTON - Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker were in agreement on the need for stable foreign exchange rates. Speaking after an hour-long meeting with Baker, Miyazawa also said he was satisfied with U.S. intervention to support the dollar against the yen. He expected the Group of Seven countries, which are due to meet tomorrow, to reaffirm the so-called Louvre accord to stabilize foreign exchange rates.     ---     NEW YORK - The dollar bounced higher near the close of trading as the stock and bond markets went into a steep slide, but most traders are awaiting results from top-level meetings in Washington before committing themselves.     ---     NEW YORK - Texaco Inc said it asked the Texas Court of Appeals to block enforcement of a 10.3 billion dlr judgment bond won by Pennzoil Co until appeals are decided. Texaco said Monday that if it had to pay the full bond it would be forced to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy code.     ---     NEW YORK - AFG Industries Inc and Wagner and Brown ended their hostile bid to acquire GenCorp Inc after the company's dramatic announcement Monday of sweeping anti-takeover measures. GenCorp, a large diversified manufacturing concern, announced a 1.6 billion dlr, or 130 dlr a share, buyback of 54 percent of its stock and the sale of its tire and soft drink bottling units.     ---     NEW YORK - A firm comprised of an E.F. Hutton Group unit and Purolator Courier Corp executives agreed to end its 268 mln dlr pact to buy Purolator, allowing Emery Air Freight Corp to proceed with its 306 mln dlr bid for the world's largest ground carrier. In response, Emery said it would renew its request for a merger with the Basking Ridge, N.J.-based courier service.     ---     NEW YORK - ITT Corp authorized the repurchase of 10 million shares of its common and preferred stock as part of a program to enhance its earnings and shareholder value. ITT also said it will redeem three series of its preferred stock.     ---     PARIS - Airbus Industrie, the European airplane manufacturer, said it would buy engines for its proposed A340 wide-body jet from a joint-venture linking General Electric Co. and SNECMA of France. The move is a boost for GE's aerospace division and bad news for the International Aero Engine consortium. The IAE group was selected to provide engines for the A340 in December when an earlier GE engine was dropped for use in the plane. International Aero Engine includes the world's other leading engine manufacturers, Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney and Japan's Aero Engines.     ---     WASHINGTON - Michael Davidoff, head trader for Ivan Boesky's Seemala Corp, has consented to Securities and Exchange Commission penalities and agreed to help in its continuing investigation of insider trading, the SEC said. Davidoff recently pleaded guilty in federal court to violating the government's net capital requirements for brokers and traders.     ---     NEW YORK -  Several major computer companies launched new computers, with Italy's Olivetti becoming the first major firm to promise products to compete with International Business Machines' new personal computers launched last week. Motorola, Wang Laboratories, Unisys and Honeywell Bull all launched new products, although they were seen as only modest advances in product lines.     ---     NEW YORK - Avon Products Inc, one of the world's leading cosmetics manufacturers, said it will purchase Giorgio Inc, maker of the best-selling Giorgio perfume, for 185 mln dlrs  in cash.  Reuter &#3;

