13-APR-1987 11:19:54.97

CAPITAL MARKET BORROWING FALLS IN MARCH, OECD SAYS

Borrowing on the international capital markets contracted significantly in March with 23.1 billion dlrs of medium and long-term funds raised, down 3.4 billion from February and about nine billion dlrs less than in March 1986, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said in its latest monthly report.     Borrowing on external bond markets totalled 19.7 billion dlrs, some 1.1 billion below the February figure.     The market for floating rate notes saw further setbacks and the volume of new offerings fell to only 800 mln dlrs from 1.4 billion in February.     For the first quarter as a whole, the OECD said, funds raised on the floating rate bond market totalled three billion dlrs, the lowest figure since the third quarter of 1982.     Activity on the straight bond market was also less buoyant than in previous months while equity-related offerings continued to benefit from the good performance of major stock markets.     Exchange rate uncertainties continued to have a major impact on the currency composition of new bonds. Dollar issues totalled 6.8 billion dlrs, accounting for only 35 pct of total offerings, but borrowing was particularly heavy on the euroyen market (3.3 billion dlrs) and in sterling (2.8 billion dlrs).     Offerings of mark bonds declined to 1.3 billion dlrs from around three billion dlrs in the two previous months, whilst strong advances were recorded in the euro-Australian and euro-Canadian dollar sectors, where new offerings exceeded one billion dlrs, the OECD said.     In the syndicated credit market, the volume of new loans fell to 2.4 billion dlrs in March from 4.2 billion in February. Similarly, activity on the market for note issuance and other back-up facilities fell to one billion dlrs from 1.5 billion.     In March, OECD borrowers accounted for over 90 pct of total borrowing. Japan was the largest fund-raiser with 4.5 billion dlrs, followed by the U.S. With 3.9 billion and Britain with 2.4 billion dlrs.     France, West Germany and Norway raised funds of over one billion dlrs each.     Borrowing by developing countries totalled one billion dlrs, about the same amount as in February. But borrowing by east European countries fell to 300 mln dlrs from 600 mln in February, the OECD added.  REUTER &#3;

