 2-APR-1987 09:57:58.36

CHERNOBYL TO CAUSE PROBLEMS FOR SOVIET ELECTRICITY

The Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster has left Soviet plans to extend nuclear power stations unchanged, but will in the long run cause major problems for the electricity industry, a Western expert said.     West German economics researcher Jochen Bethkenhagen, in a report presented to a NATO economics seminar, said increased targets for Soviet nuclear energy output showed the April, 1986, disaster had not caused any change in Moscow's energy policy.     But the accident was expected to prompt design changes in future Soviet power stations to "exclude manipulations of safety equipment" of the sort that occurred at Chernobyl, he said.     This will presumably result in substantial delays in the completion of reactor blocks and in stricter quality controls during the construction of nuclear power stations, he said.     Bethkenhagen said the Chernobyl accident was also likely to have frustrated for a long time Soviet hopes of exports of nuclear power stations to countries outside the Comecon bloc.     "It is also doubtful that the talks with China, Syria, Libya and Iraq with regard to Soviet deliveries in the next few years will have positive results," he said.     The meeting heard views of academics and Kremlin-watchers on the impact of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev on energy policy.     Several participants today argued that Gorbachev was unlikely to extend his internal economic policies to the energy sector, at least for now.     Bethkenhagen said high energy growth targets set by the Soviet Union up to the end of the decade showed Moscow intended to stick to a rigid supply-, rather than demand-oriented policy.     Norwegian academics Arild Moe and Helge Ole Bergesen said that the Soviet fuel industries represented such a pillar of the economy that immediate reform was tricky. "Any 'experiment' on a large scale cannot be allowed, because the negative consequences if a reform backfires will be too great," they said.  REUTER &#3;

