20-OCT-1987 16:51:23.81

EC FARM MINISTERS BACK SPENDING CURBS IDEA

European Community (EC) agriculture ministers gave their support in principle for a new scheme to limit spending on the bloc's controversial farm policy at a meeting in Luxembourg on Tuesday, Danish minister Laurits Tornaes told journalists.     Acceptance of the scheme, by which farmers would suffer price cuts if their production exceeded certain norms, known in EC jargon as stabilisers, is seen by diplomats as vital if the EC is to solve its current massive budget crisis.     Speaking at a news conference after chairing a two-day meeting of farm ministers, Tornaes said: "It is no longer a question of whether we are to have stabilisers. It is now a question of how we are to implement them."     However, EC sources warned that despite Tornaes' optimism, it may be difficult to get the sort of detailed agreement needed on the stabiliser scheme ahead of an EC heads of government meeting in Copenhagen on December 6.     This is the vital meeting at which EC leaders will be asked to agree a new system of EC financing, ending the bloc's hand-to-mouth existence which has resulted in its being unable to agree a budget for 1988.     Britain has said it will block moves to give the EC additional sources of finance unless a detailed system of stabilisers is agreed at or ahead of the summit.     Under the most important stabiliser scheme, EC guaranteed prices for cereals would be cut by one percentage point for every per cent by which the annual harvest exceeded 155 mln tonnes, a figure well below what EC farmers are capable of producing in a year of favourable weather conditions.    Farm ministers will meet again on November 16 to attempt to hammer out an accord, and Danish diplomatic sources said the meeting could last through several long nights of negotiation.     But Tornaes said any thought that success was not ultimately possible would be a gesture of retreat at this stage.     EC Commission sources said among the remaining problems were appeals from Southern member states for protection for their small and relatively poor farmers, and calls from France and the Netherlands for significant changes to Commission proposals for arable crops.     They added that West Germany appears still reluctant to accept the idea of production ceilings being set at the level of the EC as a whole rather than that of member states.     Meanwhile, the ministers made little progress in agreeing a scheme to top up the income of poorer farmers through direct payments, which could help to cushion the impact of stabilisers on them.     British minister John MacGregor told journalists :"The proposals as they stand have very few friends."     He said a number of countries fear they could simply encourage further unwanted production by giving farmers the cash to improve production methods.  Reuter &#3;

