 30-MAR-1987 11:07:19.68

TECHNOLOGY/IBM'S NEW COMPUTER NERVOUSLY AWAITED

International Business Machines Corp <IBM> is widely expected to deeply affect the personal computer industry this week when it announces a long awaited new generation of desktop machines.      The four new computers, expected to be called the Personal System 2 family, are almost sure to veer away from industrywide standards for personal computers that were first established by IBM six years ago.      The result id the new computers will be harder to copy and less likely to work with software and attachments designed for existing standards. Some market researchers are already predicting slower growth as customers adjust to the change.     A proprietary IBM pc will cause the pc market's growth to be flat or even negative in 1988 as vendors and users delay purchases to gauge the importance of the new machine,'' said John McCarthy, consultant with Forrester Research Inc.      IBM is traditionally very close-mouthed about unannounced products, but so intense is the interest in these machines that some details have leaked out and consultants, dealers and the trade press are rife with information, both factual or supposed.     The four computers expected to be announced April 2 will reportedly include one low end, low cost computer, two models that will resemble IBM's current high-end AT, and, most importantly, a computer incorporating Intel Corp's <INTC> 80386 microprocessor, the powerhouse chip that is revolutionizing the personal computer.     The microprocessor is the brains of a computer and Intel microprocessors are the ones used in all IBM and IBM-compatible personal computers, by far the largest segment of the desktop market.      The 80386, more commonly called the 386, processes computer instructions twice as fast as the chips used in existing IBM computers and 386-based desktop computers are as powerful as the much larger minicomputers of a few years ago.      Although IBM will not be the first company to introduce a 386 personal computer - Compaq Corp <CPQ> was - most industry consultants believe that customers will not rush to embrace the new generation until they see what the world's largest computer company is going to do.     What IBM will apparently do is introduce a computer that is, at least temporarily, copy-proof. That is a far different situation than exists with IBM's current family of personal computers, which are cloned widely.      With the Personal System, IBM will reportedly build as many features as possible directly into the computers' motherboards, including graphics capabilities, a non-standard bus for add-on equipment and a new version of the operating system used on all IBM compatible computers.      The word in (Silicon) Valley is that it will take two mln dlrs and 18 months before the machines can be copied,'' said Michael Murphy, publisher of the newsletter California Technology Stock Letter.       At the same time as Personal System is unveiled, Microsoft Corp <MSFT> is expected to unveil a new version of its MS/DOS operating system, DOS 3.3, that will correct many of the programming problems encountered on earlier versions of the software. MS/DOS is used with all IBM personal computers.       Consultants said that most existing IBM-compatible software will run on the new computers but software written specifically for the Personal System will not run on older models.      The industry will be looking closely at the delivery dates for the new computers, particularly the 386, because if IBM does not start shipping its entry in this important new market soon, Compaq will continue to gain larger and larger market share.     Market researcher Future Computing Inc estimated that Compaq's Deskpro 386, which started shipping last October, is generating sales of between 3.5 mln and and four mln dlrs a month. In the first six months of availability between 21 and 24 mln dlrs worth of Deskpro 386s were sold.     Said Future Computing analyst Joe Cross, "That's some indication of the kind of money IBM is leaving on the table."  Reuter &#3;

