19-MAR-1987 12:44:29.82

FRENCH MINISTER RENEWS ECONOMIC CONTROVERSY

French Social Affairs and Labour Minister Philippe Seguin has renewed a controversy over whether France is positioning itself for an economic U-turn, saying it was possible to boost domestic demand without giving rise to negative economic effects.     Prime Minister Jacques Chirac's spokesman, Denis Baudouin, on Monday sparked speculation of a reflation hitherto excluded by the government when he said ministers were agreed on the desirability of "relaunching the economy."      The Finance Ministry, however, swiftly ruled out the option of reinflation policies to boost domestic demand, which were tried and abandoned by the previous Socialist government.     Earlier today sources close to Finance Minister Edouard Balladur reiterated policy remained one of restoring sound finances and enhancing economic competitiveness.     But political analysts said Baudouin's statements showed growing divisions over electorally sensitive social issues among the rightist RPR-UDF coalition, ahead of its bid next year to capture the presidency from Socialist president Francois Mitterrand.     While the government has achieved lower inflation, a better foreign trade balance and an overwhelmingly successful privatisation programme, unemployment has continued to edge upwards, reaching its present record rate of 10.9 pct, with more than 2.5 mln jobless.     Seguin, who holds direct responsibility for dealing with unemployment, told a press lunch, "Everything depends on what you call reflation...One can arrive at the results of a reflation without passing through the perverse effects of a reflation."     He said conservative prime minister Jacques Chirac would announce in the next few days a package of capital endowments for state-owned enterprises including public works and motorway building.  And while sources at Seguin's ministry said the package could total 12 billion francs for 1987, sources close to Balladur, making no mention of public works, said only 8.6 billion francs had been set aside for capital endowments.     Seguin said the advantage of public works was that they were non-inflationary and had a fast job-creating power.  REUTER &#3;

